What we're seeing is a change in
sentiment around the tech and the AI
trade.
>> AI is is is been sort of like a
heat-seeking missile looking at
different sectors.
>> There's definitely a lot of fears in the
market right now and not everything's
really rational.
>> The uncertainty in AI suggests that that
entire trade is going to remain
challenging. It feels like the bull
market in AI disruption and hysteria has
really taken off.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Wednesday, finding some stability.
Equity markets putting together two days
without losses and Treasury bond yields
bouncing off the lows of the year as
hawks at the Federal Reserve are pushing
back against calls for rate cuts. The
latest Fed minutes are due later this
afternoon.
>> And to some degree, it's going to be
ancient history considering the fact
that the Fed might look very different
after April. Nonetheless, the fact that
Austin Goulsby of the Chicago Fed came
out and said that he needed further
evidence of inflation moving back toward
2% in order to cut rates. You heard the
similar kind of thing from Fed Governor
Bar. The idea that they do need to see
more disinflation seems to cast some
cold water all o over all of the rate
cut bets from yesterday.
>> There wasn't much to take away from the
last news conference with Chairman Pal,
but one headline for me was just how
much better the outlook was for him
versus a month or so ago when that
meeting took place. I wonder how much of
that comes up in the minutes. And I
would pair that with what we heard from
officials in the last 24 hours about the
prospect of a higher neutral rate off
the back of these developments in
technology and whether that's the angle
that people start to run with going into
a Kevin Walsh Fed later this year. How
many times can Fed officials say we have
no clue without saying we have no clue?
I mean essentially one person after
another is like we don't know so we're
just going to be paralyzed and stare
into the headlights for a little while
longer. This isn't like we're going to
glean any kind of incredible insight
from the Federal Reserve. I will just
note over the past 24 hours we got
inflationary CPI from the United Kingdom
as well as from Canada. CPI in the
United Kingdom at 3% everyone saying
hallelujah let's cut rates. The idea
that in Canada 2.3% hallelujah let's cut
rates suddenly 3% 2 point something%
doesn't matter globally that is enough
and I think that's tough
>> three is the new two do you want to have
some fun with the ECB
>> I would love to have it
>> let's do that so in the financial times
we're waking up to this one Christina
expected to leave the European Central
Bank before her 8-year term as president
expires in October 2027 this according
to their reporting the piece goes on and
here's the controversial piece according
to the person with knowledge of her
thinking Lagard wants to enable outgoing
French President Emanuel Macron and the
German chancellor to find a new head for
one of the EU's most important
institutions.
>> She's worried about what's going to come
next. And you're hearing this a little
bit in other corners as well of European
central banking. People want to get
ahead of whatever is coming, which makes
you wonder, well, what is coming then in
terms of some sort of populist wave in
the region. How do the existing central
bankers preserve central bank
independence? Is it their job? This is
something that increasingly is going to
come up. So, I'll start with the
official response from the ECB and then
we'll get into it. The ECB is saying
that President Lagard is totally focused
on her mission and has not taken any
decision regarding the end of her term.
Okay, so we don't know if she's going to
step down. We don't know why she's going
to step down if she steps down early.
But let's take this at face value. It's
a very odd position to take to come out
and defend central bank independence
just so long as the politicians you like
are the ones that decide who replaces
you. I think that is highly
controversial and would set a very ugly
president in years to come. Now, people
might be comfortable with this now
because they like macaron. Maybe they
do, maybe they don't. How uncomfortable
would they be if it was someone else in
the seat and we saw central bankers
stepping down. In fact, let's take it to
the United States. Let's say it was
President Trump that got to decide in
France. Would we be happy with this
decision? Of course, people wouldn't be.
Why are they comfortable with this? This
is not good.
>> There is a feeling that central bank
independence is as the status quo has
determined that central bank
independence is. And there is a feeling
as the Munich Security Committee came
out with that the world order is
breaking down. And there are a number of
people who would like to solidify the
world order as it is now before it
becomes the world order that is unknown.
Whether it's ethical, whether this is a
template, whether this will be looked
back in time as institutions taking an
overly political stance. We can
determine that later. I do think it's
notable in terms of girding down,
battening down the hatches trying to
figure out what's going to come next.
What are they afraid is going to come
next? and how threatened they see
central bank independence really as
being.
>> You are a political beast first and
foremost if you make that decision.
Independence to one side, you are
accountable still. You are still
accountable regardless of whether you
are operationally independent from the
government at the time. You are still
accountable to the government and I
think the central bankers appear to have
forgotten that based on what we've seen
in this and over the last few weeks.
>> I also saw reporting that she thought
that it was a 5year term and not a
seven-year term. I know that's lingered
for a while. I mean that's you know so
maybe maybe this whole conversation is
for not and it really is just a
misunderstanding
>> as I said a little bit earlier don't
know if she'll step down early or why
she'll step down early but if you take
that at face value that would be highly
controversial and let's put it that way
equity futures on the S&P 500 just about
firmer by a half of 1% on the S&P coming
up this hour Keith Lerner of Truist as
the equity rally looks to get back on
track Jill Ford of Wells Fargo on why
the IPO outlook remains strong and
Elliot Galoo of Bank of America on
growing capex concerns we begin this
hour with stocks rising as Investors
shake off the AI anxiety. Keith Lerner
of Truis writing, "There is a genuine
fundamental reassessment underway. Added
uncertainty points to higher volatility
and a more bifocated market. We remain
overweight technology." Keith joins us
now for more. Keith, welcome to the
program. How are you viewing the moves
we've seen in the last month or so? Is
this just a pure rotation, something
you're comfortable with, or the kind of
de-risking that makes you concerned?
>> Yeah, well, good morning to you both.
Um, it's been a really interesting
market. The first thing I'll just point
out this morning, Jonathan, if you look
at the S&P 500 year to date, we're up
0.03%.
So, uh, we really have seen this
rotation. We have about, uh, four
sectors that are up double digits and
then, uh, four sectors that are down.
Um, the way I'm looking at this,
Jonathan, is yes, this is partly a
rotation. Obviously, we all know that
tech had a big run last year and now
we're rotating out to, you know, partly
cyclical this and then we have staples
on top of that. I also looked and you
know what's interesting is some of these
sectors that are really up this year. Um
if you look at you know uh materials and
energy and and real estate and you you
throw staples in there as well like the
average market weight of these like five
sectors is around 3%. So I think it's a
little bit of again rotation a little
bit of the cyclical side and really just
finding something that you know that's
been beating up and some catchup and
maybe lastly um is you know there's
obviously the concerns about the AI
disruption as well and people are
seeking areas that you know are
perceived to be less disrupted. Well
Keith let's stay on the technical piece
of this because I think that's where it
kind of gets confusing for people. If
you look at the sector performance of
the last week, the underperformance in
financials and the banks on the S&P 500
and the outperformance in the defensive
say staples and utilities, just how much
of those moves reflect a so-called
cyclical rotation.
>> Yeah. No, it's that's why, you know,
kind of go this going to this bifrocated
market and a lot of different
narratives. I I think partly if I think
about the staples sector first of all
like what's driving that partly the
biggest individual stock in that sector
is Walmart and you can argue that's a
quas AI play that people think may be
benefit even though we know valuations
are have really moved up um you know the
the financials I think is a little
curious I think you know some of these
banks had big moves towards the end of
last year but it is somewhat curious I
think part of the the lagging there is
we've seen interest rates come down and
those interest rates coming down have
helped some of the defensive areas um
you know, like utilities, like real
estate, you know, as well. You know, I I
will say if I, you know, take a step
back though, um, you know, the the
technology sector, uh, which has been
hit this year, I mean, that sector in
communications is about 40%. The earning
trends in tech, um, you know, over the
last four months are are by far the
strongest of any sector. It's it's it's
about three times the the upward
revisions relative to the S&P itself. So
right now we're having you know on one
here side we're seeing hey fear of
disruption hurting tech and then there's
a lot of optimism about the economic
uptake hurting some of these other areas
uh as well. So it's kind of like I said
like I said earlier kind of of a split
market here.
>> So how much Keith are you taking a look
at some of the actual earnings
performance of say certain software
names certain techn technology names and
saying this looks like a good bargain
we're going to load up.
>> Yeah. So the way our strategy you know
has evolved last December we did upgrade
the sacas we went overweight industrials
and we we did keep our legacy overweight
positions in in tech and communication
services which obviously are down this
year. So I mean at this point um I I do
think that tech deserves the benefit of
the doubt. We have to remember that the
sector had really outperformed off the
lows. Now this kind of rerating that
we've seen has been pretty drastic. You
know, back in October at the highs, the
tech sector was trading for a PE
multiple of about 32. That's now down to
24. And on a relative basis, that
premium for tech relative to the broad
market has moved down to about 12%. And
relative to history, that's the lowest
premium we've seen since 2020. So, we
still think at this point, tech deserves
the benefit of the doubt. It is on an
important technical level, the 200 day
moving average. But all in all, I would
say we're still sticking with tech. And
I wouldn't be surprised if we start to
see a little bit of move back in the
tech because it's already been disrupted
as far as the valuations.
>> Keith, I've noticed that you've sighed a
couple of times. You're not alone. There
are a number of guests who've come on
and just started sighing because it
feels like a pretty exhausting market
and it feels like one that's not being
driven by a cohesive narrative. Does
this just feel like whack-a-ole to you
in terms of momentum trade?
>> It it does. I mean, money's just moving
from one um in one area to the next. the
narratives keep shifting and that's why
you know what I try to do in our work
our team tries to do is just kind of
zoom out you know focus on you know what
are we actually seeing in difference in
you know fundamental trends earning
trends we obviously also follow the
technical trends as as well but I think
in this backdrop too where you know the
market's going from one area to the next
you know going back to simplicity and
global diversification
you know within the US outside in
different um asset classes make a lot of
sense because I mean look at the global
markets we have over 90% of uh global
indices in uptrends. Um we are seeing,
you know, even though the S&P as I
mentioned is flat, we're seeing small
caps up 8%, midcaps up uh strong as
well. So there's actually it's been
actually a pretty good investing year
underneath the hood. You just can't be
overly concentrated just in just the S&P
500 by itself.
>> Keith, when it comes to software, do you
think there's going to be any scarring
on the multiple on the valuation of that
cohort of stocks? The earnings might
remain robust for the year ahead, maybe
several years out, but how scarred do
you think the valuation story is going
to be?
Yeah, I think we've had a meaningful
reset in valuations, I think it's going
to be very tough to get back to any type
of meaningful premium that we've been
used to anytime soon because even though
the earnings are strong, even if CEOs
come in and say, "Hey, our earnings are
really strong." It's hard to disprove
about what will happen in three or four
or five years and now that's what the
market is focused on. Uh, you know, that
said, on a short-term basis, the
software sector has underperformed the
overall market by the most uh since 20
uh 2000. So I do think this sector is
deeply oversold, ripe for a bounce, but
I I don't expect it to be new leadership
because of that kind of inability to
disprove the narrative uh longer term.
But again, I think it is oversold here
on a shorter term basis.
>> That group of names on the S&P down by
more than 20% so far yet today. Keith,
it's good to see a Keith Lerner of
Truist there. Some scarring on multiples
on valuations of those names in the
months and years to come. might be
>> there's deep skepticism around margin
compression. And frankly, the fact that
you're seeing a number of software
companies open their books early and
say, "Hey, look under the skirt. Check
it out. It ain't so bad." And people
still are sort of shrugging gives you a
sense of just how much skepticism there
is out there.
>> It's an interesting phrase.
>> I honestly I'm I'm butchering all sorts
of phrases today.
>> I've not heard that one before when it
comes to companies.
>> Could be an exciting one today.
>> Okay. All right. Looking forward to the
next few hours. Stocks are positive by
0.5% on the S&P. Let's get you an update
on stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Here's Ronnie Quinn. Hey, Vonnie.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. Japan plans to
invest $ 36 billion in US oil, gas, and
critical minerals projects. It's the
first part of that $550 billion
commitment under the trade agreement
struck with President Donald Trump.
These investments include a natural gas
plant in Ohio that the US says will
generate more than 9 gawatts of power.
Also, a deep water oil export facility
in the Gulf of Mexico. European Central
Bank President Christine Legal is
expected to step down from her role
before her term ends in October of 2027.
The Financial Times reporting Legal
wants to leave before the French
presidential election in April next
year. The move would allow President
Emanuel Mron and German Chancellor Fredz
to find her replacement together.
Meta agreeing to deploy millions of
Nvidia processors over the next few
years. The rollout will include products
based on Nvidia's current Blackwell
generation and the forthcoming Mirror
Rubin AI accelerators. Meta also says it
plans to rely on Nvidia's Grace CPUs for
the first time. And that is your
Bloomberg brief. John.
>> Hey Vonyie, thank you. Thanks for the
update. More from Vonyie later this
hour. Up next on our program, AI
fatigue.
>> I think some of this is just AI fatigue.
The uncertainty in AI suggests that that
entire trade is going to remain
challenging. Um, and meanwhile, I think
investors will continue to go basically
from the virtual theme to the physical
theme.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Daniel
Newman of the Futurum Group from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
Next up for this market later on this
afternoon, minutes from the last Federal
Reserve meeting. Look out for that a
little bit later on today. tomorrow. We
talked lots about this earnings from
Walmart. The big report of the week, the
week ahead, that's for sure. Thursday
morning. Look out for that. Equities at
the moment positive by 0.5% on the S&P
500. Very confusing market over the last
few weeks. That's for sure. Tons of
contradictions. Morgan Stanley's Mike
Wilson writing, "If AI is going to be
highly disruptive and farreaching in
terms of its effectiveness, doesn't that
support the investment case for the
infrastructure compute enablers?" He
also says if AI adoption is likely to
lead to more job loss, isn't there a
phase in period where the natural
attrition isn't replaced, efficiencies
are realized and margins expand? There
is a bullish story in that
>> and that's the sort of cycling through
the different trends and that's the
reason why Nvidia got a real pop
yesterday and there's a real question
about how much Nvidia is going to
ultimately benefit because if everyone's
investing well what are they investing
in? Guess what? It is what Nvidia
produces and that's what increasing
number of people are just getting around
to. Big earnings report next week from
Nvidia and we'll catch up with Mike
Wilson in about a week's time as well.
The NASDAQ looks like this. NASDAQ
futures high by 0.6% under surveillance
this morning. AI fatigue.
>> I think some of this is just AI fatigue.
Uh people are just uh totally tired of
the AI concept. They don't know where
whether they're coming or going with it.
The uncertainty in AI suggests that that
entire trade is going to remain
challenging. Um, and meanwhile, I think
investors will continue to go basically
from the virtual theme to the physical
theme.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. Tech
stocks bouncing back as dip buys return
to the battered AI trade. Joining us to
discuss is Mandep Singh of Bloomberg
Intelligence. Mandy, some stability in
some important names as well because
Apple got caught up in this. Amazon did
too. Are you seeing signs that maybe the
worst that this is behind us?
>> Well, I think valuations when you look
at the software sector in general were
stretched prior to this draw down and
you know a company like Palunteer
trading at 80 times sales when Enthropic
which is growing you know uh almost 10x
uh in the past 12 months uh you look at
their private valuation they were at a
lower multiple. So uh some of those I
think have corrected because of uh you
know what has happened but there's no
doubt that there is still uncertaintity
around how much of the capex increase is
going uh to memory which is really uh uh
gone up so much because of the shortages
and how much is it for real capacity and
and we don't know exactly you know
whether that 60% capex growth is going
to translate into 50% plus additional
capacity and I think that's the concern
in terms of how much are you going to
get in terms of ROI and revenue growth
versus how much is for component
increases right now in that capex
>> Mandy to that point do you think the
regime has shifted do you think we're
going to judge these companies
differently the metric is new that the
story of yesterday year is yesterday the
year and that we're in a new place a new
phase
>> absolutely I mean token consumption for
example is a new metric and look the
market uh always looks for long-term
revenue visibility
That's what is missing in the software
sector right now. So if you can show
that revenue visibility through that
token consumption metric or RPO or
backlog some of the new metrics that are
more tied to consumption of AI, I think
that's where your multiples are going to
reate but until then you you will be in
that penalty box.
>> Mandep thank you sir. Mandep S there of
Bloomberg intelligence. To build on that
Daniel Newman the CEO of Futurum Group a
research advisory and intelligence firm
writing the following. This is not 2000.
This is not an AI bubble bursting. What
we're seeing is a healthy overdue
rotation and a market demanding
receipts. Daniel joins us now for more.
Daniel, welcome to the program. Let's
talk about that last line. A market
demanding receipts. Receipts from who?
And is anybody getting a free pass?
>> I think the market wants to see receipts
that this revenue generation that's
supposed to come from all this AI capex
investment is tangible. It's it's
measurable and it's real. You know, you
see companies like Meta that have
performed well, not as well as I believe
they should based on some of their the
concerns about reality labs and other
things, but they're generating 60
billion plus of revenue because of the
AI that they are able to add in to their
three billion eyeballs that spend time
on their platforms every day. But then
there's other companies across say the
SAS space, Jonathan, that have said,
"Hey, we are being driven by agents. We
are being driven by AI." And while their
performance haven't necessarily dropped
meaningfully, the ability to show
clearly that AI is creating margin
expansion, that it's creating net
revenue growth or revenue expansion
among its customers hasn't been as
clear. And I think that's where you're
starting to see that margin compression.
And and to your analysts take just
before he's saying, hey, this rerating
this token consumption, this is a real
thing and and investors want to see it
in the numbers. Which company, Danielle,
has the best ability to provide
long-term visibility, which is
essentially the receipts that you're
talking about?
>> Yeah, I think there's a couple of of
aspects you have to look at. The first
is going to be on the consumer space.
And I mentioned it's the two big obvious
ones to me, which is going to be Meta
and Google. They're the ones spending
big and they're the ones that have the
eyeballs, the attention, the users and
can say, "Hey, this is how AI is
inflecting our business." The enterprise
side is a lot more interesting. you
know, Palanteer has been the driver, but
that hu that huge multiple and some of
the the opaqueness of how exactly their
business is done still creates concerns,
although they have that great retail
momentum. I'm looking at names like
Salesforce and Service Now, though. I'm
looking at those companies that have
said, "Hey, AI is not causing a problem
for our business. In fact, it's
accelerating it." Uh, Service Now showed
a rule of, I believe, 55 coming out of
that last quarter's guide. And, you
know, people are saying, "Hey, that this
needs to be trading at 50% lower."
lower. But if Bill McDerman and the team
can actually show, hey, we've got
stronger business. AI is creating
greater multiple expansion or greater
sorry margin expansion for us. I think
the market's going to take a breath and
say maybe we got this wrong. In the end,
our belief at Futurum is that it will be
collaborations between labs like
Enthropic and OpenAI and companies like
Salesforce, Workday, Service Now. It's
not going to be a replacement. And if it
is a replacement, you're talking many,
many years into the future. So Daniel,
I've gone down this rabbit hole in my
free time looking at some of the debates
on Twitter X about what actually is a
moat around software and what isn't a
moat around software, what actually
creates an undisruptible business model.
Do you have a clear sense of fact from
fiction of why a Salesforce type of
company is undisruptible from AI and
potentially is a bigger beneficiary from
it?
>> Well, first of all, I think it's an
error for any company to say they are
undisruptible. I think we've seen in
just such a short period of time the
incredible innovation that companies
like Enthropic have been able to deliver
with with co-work with code. Having said
that, I think it really comes down to
what I call the rules and the rails of
doing business and operating a business.
There is so much everyday requirement to
update the compliance, the government,
the transactability
uh that these companies have. So if you
want to be able to do business in
hundreds of different countries to be
able to transact, to be able to move
money, to be able to manage private and
proprietary data, the ability to just
drop all that into a database and say
Anthropic or Claude or or you know,
chatbt run my business. It's it's a it's
a dream. If you're building a native
business from the digital ground up,
there is going to be more and more
disruption. And I do think there are
certain companies that came out over the
last 5 years that were merely features
that get consolidated into some of these
bigger platforms. But I look at the
rules and the rails. That's how I like
to describe it. I think it's around
compliance, governance, security, and
whether or not businesses want to be
managing and updating the software that
run their their operations every single
day because if they're vibe coding their
platforms, even if they're able to build
it, they're still going to have to
manage it. And I think that's one of the
big moes that software uh technology
companies have to maintain their
business.
>> Lisa, when did X become the destination
to dump 2,000word posts? When did that
happen? I'm not sure, but I'm really
digging it fault. You think that, you
know, these are all bots out there that
are arguing with each other, and I'm
there for it. I actually really want to
read if you are a bot and you're writing
an interesting argument, I am there
reading it. Love this.
>> I think some of them are 2,000word
commercials dressed up as analysis. I
think that's what I said to you
yesterday.
>> I think that that's absolutely correct.
And I think we've seen that be borne
out. I mean, guess who's raising money?
Well, guess what? some of the uh
platforms that are going to be the most
disrupting of all of these other
technologies.
>> Daniel, how much of this is just
marketing and commercials from some big
players who might be coming public later
this year?
>> Um, are you talking about the X, the
long expost forum?
>> I'm talking about some people with a bit
of self-interest in that. Yeah. And
thinking about Anthropic with some of
the headlines they've made, the
Microsoft AI chief in the FT. There's
been a few.
>> Yeah. I mean, look, I if I have a
platform, I love X and and like Lisa, I
spend a lot of time there. It's the real
time fire hose. It's where people bring
their instant real-time analysis and
reaction. Of course, they're doing some
marketing and advertising right now,
whether it's Daario or whether it's SAM
or others. They have this platform to be
able to tell the world what they think
is going to happen. And the world is
listening because every day they're
seeing these new and exciting
technologies come out and they're
disrupting and changing the way we work.
And whether or not it's creating a
technical correction or the market is
pulling back or there's some AI fatigue,
I think anybody that's using this stuff
every day can see how transformative it
is. If you spend just a few hours
playing in Claude or any of these tools,
you're you can't have any other reaction
than this is going to change the world.
How quickly it does it and how quickly
it changes businesses. I think that's
what the traders are betting on. But if
you're a long-term investor, this AI
trade is very real. And these are not
just commercials. This is the most
transformative uh trend that I believe
we will see in our lifetimes.
>> Daniel, it's good to see you. Thank you,
sir. Daniel Newman there of the Futurum
Group. Just bear in mind, they've always
got something to sell. That's all I'm
saying.
>> My 16-year-old is sold. Mom, Claude's
amazing. It's going to reorder my
desktop. Can I get a subscription?
>> He's ready to pay.
>> He's ready to pay. Yeah. With whose
credit card?
>> You've got to pay.
>> Yes.
Here
are the scores this morning. Equities
positive by 0.5% on the S&P 500. The
good way of framing the last two days is
two days and no losses. I guess the more
negative way is to say that they are
pretty minimal gains on the S&P on
Friday and through Tuesday. This
morning, a bounce on tech on the NASDAQ
100 up by 0.6%. The good news is we
entered a 9-day streak of declines for
Amazon in yesterday's session and Apple
following a 7% drop in just two days
managed to rally for its best day in a
couple of weeks.
>> I'm going to take the glass half full. I
think that it is two days of of gains to
we've actually saved off some of the
losses and we've actually engaged with a
new type of rotation. Yesterday you were
beaten up on Walmart and the multiples.
Well, guess what? Walmart fell almost
4%. So, thank you, John. But it does
seem like people are maybe going back to
the AI names and the sort of revolving
game of whack-a-ole. Uh that does seem
to be this massive churn under the hood,
but hasn't dragged down the overlying
index
>> going into earnings from Walmart
tomorrow morning. So look out for that.
Switch up the board and get to the bond
market. Two, 10, and 30s. Some hawish
fetch speak helping to keep the 2-year
yield north of 340. Yields up again by a
single basis point. Bouncing off the
lowest level we've seen since September
2022. A chorus of hawks from the Federal
Reserve making themselves heard. Yeah,
Goulby and Bar in particular talking
about how they want to stay on hold. And
then of course Mary Daly of the San
Francisco Fed talking about how we have
no clue about how AI is really going to
transform uh both the uh benchmark rate
as well as frankly employment uh
prospects and they're carefully watching
this. They have no clue. They're going
to change as the data changes and the
data is messy and noisy and everybody
can read a different story. So it seems
like if there is a data print that
actually does confirm one AI trend or
another deterioration in the economy,
this narrative shifts on its head in one
day. Just like that. I'm totally there
with you. We've got this really good,
decent story to tell about the outlook.
One data point that undermines it and
everything just flips just like that.
>> It feels like this is two teams that are
very evenly matched on the field and
they both have, you know, the
quarterback and they both have the
forwards and they trying to come
together and it just takes that one play
that's really going to make a
difference.
>> We doing sports now.
I was going to let you run with that.
You want to keep it going? No, I didn't
don't fancy it. I don't either to be
honest with you. twos at the moment 344
tens of 4.06% with some movers going
into the open and bound 3 hours away.
Here's Yahara with more. Hey Yahara.
>> Hi John. Meta is going all in on Nvidia.
The company says it will deploy millions
of Nvidia AI chips over the next few
years as it expands its partnership. The
rollout will include Nvidia's latest
Blackwell systems and for the first time
Meta will use Nvidia CPUs in standalone
servers. We crunched a number on the
deal and it could be worth more than $16
billion easily. So shares of both
company up in the pre-market. But the
win for Nvidia is putting pressure on
the competition. Take a look at AMD
shares. They are falling 1.8%
as the AI gap grows even wider between
the two chip maker. Arista networks down
3.2% 2% on fears that Nvidia is pushing
further into networking with one of
Arista's prime customers, Meta. And we
end on the cyber security firm Palo Alto
Networks. Shares are plunging 6.6% after
the company cut its profit outlook. This
is a firm that has been spending
aggressively on acquisitions. It even
announced one yesterday, but that is
starting to weigh on profits. So that is
doing little to ease concerns on a
company that had been caught up in the
software and cyber security selloff over
the past few weeks with shares down 9%
year to date heading into the earnings
print yesterday. John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yihara in
the next hour on our radar this morning.
Japan launching its trade pack with the
US investing up to 36 billion in
American energy and critical mineral
projects. The deal including a new
natural gas plant in Ohio aiming to
provide more than 9 gawatt of power.
Elsewhere, Anthropic launching its
second major AI model in just under two
weeks. The startup saying the new model
features advanced computer capabilities
and superior coding power. Software
stocks taken a hit on the news, closing
Tuesday session in the red. And finally,
ECB president Christine Lagard will
likely step down before her term ends on
October 2027. The FT reporting the Guard
wants to leave before the French
presidential election next April so that
Macron and the German Chancellor can
choose her replacement. So, you were
talking earlier about how this
essentially is a political act and this
really is choosing the current
administration over whatever could be
the future administration and it really
kind of throws central banks into the
crosshairs of political accusations.
That's a fair argument. I think that
there is a bigger point here which is
increasingly they are political
instruments and that whether the central
banks want to or not because of the
level of deficits because of the focus
on borrowing costs because of the focus
on interest payments they are
increasingly becoming political and all
of their actions we look through that
lens whether they mean it that way or
whether she just thought that it was a
5-year term instead of an 8-year term
>> well that's a separate issue isn't it
particularly the last point this has
always lingered around the Lagard ECB
it's been problematic for some time
>> I'll try and repeat and clarify what I
said a little bit earlier so it comes
across with maybe less anger. The ECB
president is signing up for an 8-year
term, whether she thought it was five or
eight, beside the point. I don't know if
she's going to step down early or why
she would step down. But if she steps
down to allow Macron to choose her
successor, that is political and it
makes it very, very difficult for your
successor to defend central bank
independence against what comes next.
when you've stepped down because you
want your politician friends to choose
who replaces you. I think that that act
undermines everything you've stood for
over the last month or so, particularly
when you've defended central bank
independence in the face of what's
happening here abroad overseas when you
haven't got your own house in order at
home. When it comes to Christine Lagard
and the ECB, you can talk about how
she's operated. I think that's all
separate. Just leave that to one side.
I'm a massive advocate of central bank
independence. I think most people
watching this program are too. And I
would hate to see an act that would
undermine it and make it difficult for
people to defend it in the years to
come. And something like that, and I
have no idea if it happens or not, but
something like that could establish a
pretty ugly president in years to come.
>> It's a great point. I'm not going to
argue with that. It's a great point. And
increasingly, how much do different
central bankers have to really be aware
of how they preserve central bank
independence by setting a precedent?
Even if it seems like the the the sands
are shifting to such a degree that they
really can't foresee how central bank
independence is going to be preserved in
the future, that's not their job right
now. It's really make sure that they do
the right thing and set a certain
precedent.
>> Let's see what happens. Also, you know,
the ECB deny much of this and all the
reports we've seen as well. Let's turn
back to markets. Investors gearing up
for what could be a historic year for
IPOs with SpaceX, OpenAI, and Anthropic
among those preparing to debut. Jill
Ford, the co-head of equity capital
markets of Wells Fargo, writing, "AI is
creating disruption in capital markets,
but also creating opportunity and
pulling forward others that will be in
favor." Jill joins us now for more.
Jill, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Can you just frame for us the kind of
year we might have for IPOs and how
historic the next 12 months might be?
>> Well, one thing I know is I don't know.
Um, it's been obviously a last a crazy
last couple of weeks that we've all seen
in the overall markets. What's that what
that has done is forced active fund
managers to really cole through their
portfolios line by line figure out what
could be disrupted what could not a that
causes distraction against the capital
markets but it's also a reflection of
where they want to put their money with
respect to the new issue markets and
IPOs in particular we've seen some
examples of that couple of deals got
pulled alto together that had been come
out and launched uh that never made it
to the tape even after some pretty um uh
you know heavy uh restructuring with
respect to size and price and valuation.
Um we've also seen some others that we
thought were 27 IPOs now start to
re-engage in conversation about coming
out here in 26.
>> We're all focused on the beast. Open
AAI, Anthropic, SpaceX. These companies
are massive. When you compare the kind
of companies that listed 20 years ago to
the ones we might see in 2026, just how
much has this market changed?
>> Oh, no question. This is this is
completely different than anything we've
ever seen. um companies of this size, of
this maturity, of this scale would be
public for many years by now in the
past. And part of that has been the
proliferation of of a really deep
private market um so that they have
access to capital. Um but I also think
that um they did they did well to stay
as private companies and to be able to
grow in the way that they wanted to grow
without being under the microscope um of
being a public company. Now that they're
coming, however, it's going to be a big
basketball in the bathtub, right? This
is this is going to create an
unprecedented amount of supply. Um
because not just are they big, but the
capital needs that they have are big as
well.
>> Are investors prepared for it? Are they
going to have to sell assets in order to
play into it? I mean, how disruptive to
valuations in other areas and
potentially other IPOs that could be
coming at that time would an open AAI or
an anthropics IPO look like?
>> I would say yes and no. Um there's no
question with the amount of supply
coming into the market, people will have
to sell certain positions that they own
to make room and to to create the dry
powder. However, uh if you look at
particularly some of the bigger hedge
funds, some of the bigger mutual funds,
they already own some of these companies
in the private sphere, crossover
investors. So their amount of exposure
um is not zero. And we'll see that
demand come in for the supply. I think
come in some of the more non-traditional
new issue buyer um cohorts which would
be family offices, sovereign wealth
funds, pension funds, uh retail for
example. All of these will come in and
help soop up some of the supply as well
as um you know the fact that they're
sitting in large cap funds, right? These
are mega cap companies. um the
traditional buyers of small and medium,
you know, size IPOs, which is the
traditional IPO, they'll be unaffected.
So, there will be some um I think
changing of um rotating out of positions
to make room. Um but I don't think it's
going to be as draconian as people
think.
>> So, every morning when I come in and I
tell John about another 2000word article
that I've read in X, he looks at me and
he says, "Road show, road show. Guess
what they're doing? They're all
preparing for something to come out." It
sounds like a road show, right? Well,
and it's working, right? I mean, you've
got the expectations really high for
Anthropic. They come out with a new
press release and everybody presses sell
on their five favorite software stocks.
I'm just wondering, does that mean that
they're all going to expedite their
IPOs? I mean, this is peak froth for
these names, peak speculation. Do you
see it kind of forward uh accelerating
the the forward calendar a bit? Again,
these are massive companies. They don't
need to do anything, right? They have
access to capital. Um they eventually
will have a growth plan that involves
being a public company. Um, but they're
going to take their time and they're
going to do it the right way. They're
not, um, subject to the vagaries of, you
know, is the software, you know, index
up 20%, down 20%. They're going to do
what they need to do for their
individual businesses. That's why they
become so po incredibly valuable over
time. And so, the dialogue that's going
on right now is, is the market fertile?
Do investors have their wallets open?
What kind of valuation could I get? and
they're weighing it against the, you
know, the uh uh path of staying private
longer. And I think, like I said, those
those conversations have become more
intense. They've become more
intentional. Um you can't just turn it
on a dime. There's a very long process
that has to get that has to happen with
respect to testing the waters and making
sure um you you've done everything
correct with the SEC. And so, they're
going to go along their path and keep
their options open. And if the the
markets stay the way that they're
staying in terms of the froth that
you're talking about, um I'm guessing
some of them will come out in 26 and
even some that might have considered
come out coming out in 27 accelerating
those plants. But again, it's not
accelerating it where you're you know
turning on a dime. It's really u big big
ships that they're that they're moving
um you know quite nuancedly.
>> Joe, let's build on that. If this is a
road show, it's a highly disruptive one
and there's a phrase you used is the
market fertile. It might be for them,
but they're making it infertile for
other other participants in the market.
So, if you're a software company right
now, they're making it very very
difficult to go public. Is this a halo
effect on tech stocks or do you find
this a disruptive moment for companies
coming to market?
>> The way that I look at it is not all
software stocks are created equal. There
are some that will be disadvantaged,
right? There are some actually that we
think we'll pull forward. Cyber
security, infrastructure, um people who
own the data, if you will. Um, there are
a whole slew of other companies in the
fintech world, in the consumer retail
world, in the boring, you know, you're
gonna have Jim Zeltter on in a couple uh
a half an hour or so. Think about all
the boring real asset uh uh companies
that sit within that portfolio of that
of that amazing private equity firm.
These are um flavors that investors, you
know, not every investor is a tech
investor. Not every investor has that
mandate or wants to um be only focused
on SpaceX and Anthropic. There are a lot
of really interesting real asset
companies that are not very disruptible
by AI which will come to market this
year and you've seen some of them come
already and they will that pipeline is
still growing and and still there. I
don't think it disrupts everything. It
doesn't suck all the air out of the room
but it will be an exciting time and it
will put all eyes on the new issue
markets
>> given developments more recently. I
think that's the biggest compliment you
could give Jim and the team at Apollo,
but it's a boring business at the
moment.
>> I mean, ultimately, that might be the
argument that we get. By the way,
fantastic job promoing our next guest,
you know. I mean, coming up next, you
should have put a put a put an a sort of
thumbnail over this, but look, this is
sort of the idea of responsibility and
moes versus the idea of disruptibility
and how do you sort of delineate at a
time of rumor?
>> Jim Zela, Apollo, 20 minutes away. Jill,
good to see you. Thank you. Jill Ford
there of Wells Fargo. Let's give you an
update on stories worldwide this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Back with us
is Vonnie Quinn. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. UK inflation
dropping to its lowest level since March
of 2025 with consumer prices rising 3%
in January from a year ago. Lower petrol
prices dragged on inflation. Airfares
and food also put downward pressure on
CPI offsetting higher hotel costs.
Warner Brothers Discovery agreeing to
reopen buyout negotiations with
Paramount Sky Dance. Paramount will be
allowed to make a best and final offer
after indicating it would raise its bid
by at least $1 per share to $31 per
share. Warner Brothers agreed in
December to sell most of its business to
Netflix for 2775 a share.
Anthropic releasing a new AI model that
it says is better at using people's
computers in increasingly complex ways
called Solid 4.6 can perform multi-step
actions on a computer such as filling
out web forms and coordinating
information. across several browser
tabs. Anthropic also says the model is
more resilient against security threats.
And that is your Bloomberg brief. John,
>> we're going to wipe out all jobs in 18
months. Have you tried Claude Sonnet
4.6?
>> I haven't, but you know what? Maybe I
should. I should go sign up for it right
now.
>> April will.
>> Honestly, I tried to click on Claude
like buy me now, right?
>> And Bloomberg said not allowed.
>> Are you trying to do that here
internally? There you go. There you go.
I'm sure. Up next on the program, AI
capex concerns
>> today. The dissonance is around AI. The
market efficiently and rightfully so is
taking a breather on spending and
waiting for the adoption phase.
>> A conversation up next with Elliot
Scaloo of Bank of America from New York
City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
Stocks are positive by 0.4% on the S&P
500. On the NASDAQ up by 0.5 on the
Russell this morning up by 0.1. An
update on the bond market for you.
Yields bouncing off the lows of the year
in the last 24 hours. Up again this
morning by a basis point. Up a single
basis point at the front end of the
curve. Add on 10 as well. The 10 year at
4.0674%.
under Savannah this morning. AI capex
concerns.
>> It feels like the S&P bull market has
paused and the bull market and AI
disruption and hysteria has really taken
off today. The dissonance is around AI.
You have both market discounting AI
counterparty risk in terms of the model
makers and software. The market
efficiently and rightfully so is taking
a breather on spending and waiting for
the adoption phase.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. Bank
of America's February Fund Manager
survey showing investors are the most
bullish since 2021. 35% of investors
saying capex though is too hot and a
record number of corporations are
overinvesting. Joining us now is Alias
Galoo of Bank of America. Alias, just
give us the chart because it's a great
chart in the piece you put out in the
last 24 hours of what it looks like when
you've asked that question over the last
20 years or so. How people have
responded and how quickly that story has
changed.
John, I think you know it was one of the
biggest gamecher uh of the past 20
years. You know, suddenly the the the
you know the catalyst of this bull
market AI capex and the foundation of
this bull market, you know, the tech
sector which has led uh the gains in uh
the S&P 500 pretty much since the GFC.
Well, you know, investors are now
suddenly realizing that the business
model of this leader, the tech sector is
shifting. uh it used to be an asset
light model which is now shifting into
an asset heavy model and this is why FMS
investors the majority of them are
saying right now it the most important
is that the CFO the CEOs of the tech
companies slow down capex because we are
not sure that the productivity gains
from AI will be as great as the price
and the valuations of the equity sector
are implying. We followed this survey
for many years, Ellias, and when I would
go to the most crowded trades, number
one almost repeatedly for so so long, so
many years was long US tech. Are those
capex concerns upending what was once a
very consensus trade
clearly, you know, uh pretty much since
2023, long magnificent
7 has remained the most crowded trade
over the past year. uh it was uh you
know it's been um co- leader with with
long gold but really long max 7 has been
the most crowded trade of this bull
market that started in October 2022. Now
I think you know what matters most is
the direction of the balance sheet of uh
of the tech sector and investors right
now they're not worried about AI they
are still very much convinced that AI
will deliver the kind of productivity
gains that will sustainably boost EPS
that will sustainably boost um economic
growth without lifting inflation but
it's just that they just want capex to
slow down a bit in order for the balance
sheet to remains immaculate and
sustainable.
>> IAS, this feels like a group of people
who are very worried but still investing
hand over foot because you look at the
optimism that is one of the most bullish
in recent memory in terms of just the
overall sentiment. You still have long
big tech as one of the biggest trades
and one of the most overweight trades
and people still see profits that will
grow by four and a to the highest levels
of the fastest pace going back four and
a half years because of AI. So which is
it? Are they overinvesting or frankly
are people looking for uh the profits
and the gains and they're just worried
and they're ringing their hands because
they want to feel different?
>> Sure. Look, it's still the the middle of
the summer here in the in the northern
hemisphere, Lisa, as you know, but
clearly this one this was the hottest
FMS uh survey of the past 5 years. And
that is because investors are so bullish
on profit expectations, you know, the
most optimistic on EPS growth in five
years, but they are also very bullish
about the macro. Um, I think, you know,
what the the one metric that struck me
uh this month is the uh absolute that
there is an absolute majority of
respondents who believe that there's
going to be a global economic no lending
over 50 52%. uh and this is something
unseen since we started asking this
question in uh in 2023. So investors are
very bullish about you know the the
global macro but this exuberant
sentiment is now solely based on one
pillar and that is the AI pillar. So the
foundation right now is fragile because
if the AI pillar starts to tumble it's
the entire positioning and the entire
sentiment that will that will follow.
And this is why we've seen the
volatility in the assets that really
concentrated the froth at the end of
2025. Um, and this volatility is going
to remain until we see a gamecher when
it comes to AI capex. And we think this
game changer will probably happen when
one of the big hyperscaler announced not
a capex cut but you know um a slowdown
versus the expectations that was set
only a few weeks ago.
>> Certainly haven't seen that in the last
month. earlier. So, I wanted to squeeze
this in. The third most crowded trade
short the US dollar. I want your
judgment now, not what's in the survey.
Would you lean against that given what
you're seeing play out and how offside
the market is at the moment?
It depends on the horizon. Tactically
adding a little bit to your dollar
positions makes sense because as you
said John you know being um the the
position on the dollar remains extremely
underweight but it has remained very
underweight pretty much since you know
post liberation day uh last year since
April 2025. So investors right now the
the long-term view is that this is a
market that will be driven by AI
productivity gains but they also are
looking at the fundamentals of US fiscal
policy and the balance sheet of the US
government which is not improving. uh
when the CBO released their uh their
forecast last week, if you remember,
they projected that the US national debt
would rise by 2.5 trillion every year in
the next 10 years. And John, the US
government will pay over the next 10
years an amount of interest interest
payment that is pretty much the size of
the European economy. So they the
investors remain laser focused on this
fundamental um of the US government
balance sheet. So they remain very much
underweight bonds and underweight the
dollar. Now the big question is whether
this new Fed policy is good or bad for
the dollar. We ask this question and
most of FMS participant believe that a
Walsh Federal Reserve means higher bond
yields and lower US dollar.
>> We'll see. Alias, thank you. Alas Galoo
there of Bank of America. Thank you sir.
This from Stockhol bears are skiing
uphill at the moment. Kick juice just
yesterday. So far, everyone is on the
same side, which is that the dollar is
going to weaken. So, what happens when
it strengthens after a Kevin Worsh got
in and then had some sort of things to
say that were a little bit more hawkish?
Well, that's part of what flipped
everything on its head. So, how much is
this a lever trade on the other side?
>> Did you see the Norwegian skiing uphill?
>> I seen those pictures.
>> I obsessively watch that again and
again. Absolutely.
>> Another version of humanity that I
aspire to.
>> I think he's faster than me going
downhill. Going uphill.
>> Absolutely incredible. I mean, I just
was getting out of breath watching it,
thinking like, I think I need to eat
something.
>> Beast. Absolute machine. The second down
of Bloomberg surveillance. Up next, Jim
Zeltza of Apollo.
>> We do expect to see some growth
surprises.
>> Long-term. I would be a little bit
cautious about this rally in the 10ear.
The risk is towards fewer cuts, not more
cuts if the economy holds up.
>> Fed on a go forward basis is probably in
more of a reactive mode.
>> The real debate this year on the Fed is
where neutral policy is going to be.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg Savannah starts right now and
your scores look like this. The price
action shaping up as follows. Equity
futures on the S&P up by 0.4% adding to
some muted gains over the previous two
days. On the NASDAQ up by 0.5 in the
bond market, a bounce continues. A
bounce off the year-to- date lows on a
10-year Treasury yield. We're up by a
single basis point at 4.06%.
>> Do you see this is really having
anything to do with the hawkish speak
from a couple of Fed members yesterday
>> at the front end a little bit on
>> maybe? Okay, because people are looking
for direction and we're going to get Fed
minutes that are about as stale as no
cookie. and you're looking at this and
you're thinking, "Okay, what guidance
can they give us given the fact that
we've got messy data? They don't
understand AI's ramifications and
they're coming out again and again and
saying, "We're watching everything.
We're not sure. We need to see more
progress. How high is the bar to have
another data point that really moves the
needle on this?" I'm not sure we have a
good understanding of that.
>> So, let's take the data just as an
exercise and compare it to how the
market has responded to it. And I would
conclude the following that there is a
bull case but it's a pretty low
conviction one because every time we get
a data point that counters the
narrative. You see the move at the front
end of the curve and yields drop. We put
more weight on a softer than expected
CPI than we did on a stronger than
expected payrolls and a really decent
ISM manufacturing. And they're two
pretty strong pillars to communicate a
story that the year ahead's going to be
decent for growth. But you get any kind
of sign that that's undermined by
whatever challenger job cuts tier two
tier three data and you'll start to move
the other way. And I think that's
notable.
>> Yeah. And people increasingly are poking
holes though in that jobs report saying
that it wasn't as strong as it looks and
a lot of people saying it's affected by
seasonals, it will be downwardly
revised, etc., etc. I think you're
raising the right point. How much is now
the new emphasis on disinflation and
what is considered good disinflation? I
keep going back to the fact that we got
uh the UK coming out and saying they
only have a 3% CPI rate year-over-year.
Guess what? We can cut rates in Canada
2.3% victory. At what point are we
looking at an inflationary environment
globally that's just accepted by central
banks and frankly embraced as long as it
doesn't have higher than a four handle?
>> Show me your unemployment rate. At the
same time, once you get to a five
handle, you got a bit of a problem. The
UK's got a bit of a problem. There's the
itch there to cut interest rates and
anything around 2 to three is probably
going to give them the space to get it
done.
>> And this is the reason why the
ramifications of the artificial
intelligence and how it gets adopted
throughout the economy really matters.
There is an existential fear right now
among policy makers, long-round
businessmen. What is the effect going to
be on human employment and how much does
that lead to this jobless growth that we
continue to see that really leaves
people in a bad shape?
>> Yeah, it would be easy to blame AI in
the UK. They've got a tax problem. If
you tax jobs, you'll get less of them.
It's very simple. You put up payrolls
taxes, you're going to make it more
expensive to hire people. You put up the
minimum wage, you're going to make it
more expensive to hire people. Who
aren't being hired? Young people in the
United Kingdom. You've got a policy
issue. You can't just blame tech and AI.
>> Yeah. And who are those young people?
prior pri predominantly men. I mean the
fact that one in five men in the United
Kingdom are unemployed who are the
between the ages of 18 to 24 speaks of a
new era in terms of what the political
zeitgeist might look like.
>> If you make it more expensive to hire
people, what will companies do? They
invest in tech. That's what companies
are going to do.
>> Yeah.
>> Equity futures right now in the S&P 500
up by 0.5%. Coming up this hour, we'll
catch up with Jim Zela of Apollo as
equities find their footing. Mitchell
Green of Leedge Capital will join us.
saying enterprise software is far from
obsolete and Oliver Chen of TD count as
Walmart eyes new highs ahead of
earnings. We begin this hour with stock
stabilizing following a softwareled
sell-off. Jim Zouta, the Apollo global
management president saying the firm
maintains one of the leanest software
positions in the sector. I'm pleased to
say that Jim joins us now for more. Jim,
good morning. Good to see you.
>> Good morning, John. Always good to see
you and Lisa. Thank you.
>> What do you think we're going to cover
this morning? Probably software, right?
>> I think you probably might ask that
question. I suspect
>> want to pick up on this quote from Mark
Rowan, your colleague, good friend. In
our PE business, our software exposure
rounds to zero. In our Athen balance
sheet, our software exposure rounds
closer to zero than to one. That was on
the call in the last week. Can you frame
for us your deployment into software
versus maybe your competitors and why
you weren't as big as aggressive as
others have been? Well, I think the the
answer is you you need to take a step
back in the whole evolution of the role
of private credit. And as we've talked
about on the show before, the
non-investment grade portion, which is
really the the area where PE sponsors
look for financing, um that's the area
where software, software tech,
healthcare tech is around 40% of the
marketplace. And we we just used a a a
as a as a principal investor in that
area. We had a view that there was a
greater degree of potential disruption
over time in those business models. And
a far greater focus for us is on the
investment grade side portion of the of
the private credit world. So, you know,
I I've been in the business for 41
years. the S&P 500. Since I got in the
business in 1985, 373 companies have
moved out of the S&P because of of of
disruption in mergers and acquisitions.
And I think every decade there's more uh
evolution out of the S&P 500. So, I I
just think that we took it wasn't that
we were smarter. It's just that when you
have a disciplined approach on value,
when you have a disciplined approach on
how you want to underwrite, there's a
tremendous amount of wonderful companies
out there. But when we think about
equity at the bottom of a levered
balance sheet or a levered capital
structure, there's just risks that we
thought were not prudent for our style
of investing.
>> Management teams will often say they
don't follow the stock that closely, but
your stock has got caught up in the
sell-off. And I'm wondering what your
interpretation of that actually is, why
you think that's happening and what
investors are telling you about how your
name trade at the moment in public
markets.
>> You know, I think I think is the
evolution of the markets and the role of
of private credit has really continued
to evolve and play a major role in the
financing markets the last 3 to 5 years
in particular. We've been a massive
beneficiary of that. We've brought our
retirement services, lowerc cost capital
to be a solution provider. We've had
tremendous growth in our company and
every part of our company last four or
five years. And I think that there's a
the great thing about capitalism is if
there's concerns, the market reacts
really really quickly. Uh price
activity, price action, the equity
market is is instantaneous as we've seen
the last, you know, couple of months.
And I think that there are some great
companies in our sector that have been a
been been victims of let's move on and
let's let's pare down positions in in in
periods of uncertainty. So there's
nothing fundamentally that investors
have told us that there's concern about
our company or sectors, but there are
certainly concerns about the growth of
private credit in aggregate. And we've
been pretty consistent for for our stock
long long term to create the value that
we believe it will. We're going to need
to go through a credit cycle. And at
some point in time, it's been if you
really go back, it's really been 0709
since there's been a deep credit cycle.
We're supremely confident of our ability
to navigate that credit cycle very, very
well, especially with the predominance
of our IG exposure. And when we do that,
I think that the marketplace will see
the great benefit of our franchise. But
but I'll also add, I'll just pivot for
one second. You know, prior to earnings,
we just got back from Japan. We took 200
partners over to Japan for better part
of a week. We do it every two years. And
when you think about the things that
we're involved with with retirement
solutions, helping investment grade
companies evolve, uh global growth of
economies that are in transition
periods, Japan was an amazing place for
us to get that strategy. So, a lot of
answers there, but it's a very exciting
time for our business.
>> I heard that there are certain actors
who are bad actors in the space that are
dragging you down. That's kind of what I
heard. I mean, is that correct? I mean,
is that sort of how you see this
scenario given the fact that there will
be a credit cycle and some of them are
going to get washed out?
>> I I think I think what a cycle does is a
cycle always allows for dispersion of
returns. And again, I think that there's
a handful of us that are public. We all
have very different strategies. We've
all really leaned into either real
estate, you've really we've really
leaned into credit, we've leaned into
Asian equity, whatever it may be. Our
business is a bit different because of
the Athen angle and the aspects of our
retirement services platform and the
fact that we act as a principal. So
there's a variety of different
strategies out there. We're convinced
that ours over time with the changing
winds of finance with the demands from
technology, energy transition that our
our model will be a wonderful model in
that and others who have invested in
areas what which might have been
interesting at a point in time with the
information you had at that time. You
know, we'll see how those do. But again,
I'm I'm not close enough to other
software portfolios to see the robust
nature, but certainly they're going
going to go through a period of economic
disruption. And again, all all the all
the all the guests on your show talk
about AI with regard to data and chips
and energy. There's a second and third
and fourth derivative of this will come
out over the next three to five years
about the real return on invested
capital, what it does for employment,
what it does for white collar jobs, what
it does for a lot of areas. And I and I
think it plays into another big theme
which we've talked about on the show is
that the last 15 18 years it's been
monetary policy, monetary, monetary
policy. It's all about monetary policy
because a lot of government officials in
the world have taken a step back and let
the monetary authorities take the lead.
The reality is this is a time for a lot
of fiscal activity to be really dealt
with. You talked about the UK with taxes
and minimum wages. This is the time
monetary policy can only do so much.
>> You need to have good fiscal policy,
really be thoughtful about long-term
retirement solutions, long-term budget
issues, and that can't be led by the
monetary authorities.
>> Jim, there's a lot to unpack there. I am
curious, 2024, you were talking about
the golden era for private credit, for
credit in general. I wonder if there's
been a shift given some of the
difference in fiscal spending and the
shift away from monetary policy where
that era is over and now it's shifting
to things like insurance is shifting to
infrastructure and frankly it's harder
to raise money for private credit. There
aren't as many opportunities right now
because we might be heading into a a
credit cycle and it seems like the
opportunities are elsewhere. Yeah, I'm
not I I take a much longer view of of
the role of credit and and I I think you
know if you take a step back as usual
look at bank earnings in the first
quarter they were they were very very
strong. Um the evolution of finance in
the US it's no surprise that the
economic engine of the US has has been
leading the world. I think the evolution
of the capital markets and the role of
private credits had a big a big uh
impact on that. And again, I I sort of
turn my my lens to the broader
investment grade portion, which we've
been as active on the issuance and the
partner act activities of our business
and we've been in years. The
non-investment grade, the sponsored
business is going to go through some
degree of turbulence. There's lots of
questions about the private equity asset
class and the monetization cycle and the
IPO cycle. But don't be confused. the
the demands of capital by many of these
companies whether some of the mag 7 not
Apple but the other ones and many other
companies the demands on credit and the
demands for capital to build out the
vision of what they want to do is
voracious look what's happened the last
couple weeks in the IG market with a
couple of large issuers whether it's you
know Alphabet and others you know there
there's a voracious demand for capital
and I think many investors around the
globe are saying I actually have
allocated quite a bit to corporate
credit. How do I allocate to assetbased
finance? How do I allocate to other IG
strategies when IG indexes are virtually
at all-time highs? And I'm looking to
make not 400 over, but I'm looking to
make 150 200 over with the Treasury in
the low fours. There's voracious demand
for that around the globe.
>> I've heard you use this phrase, the
pebbles versus the boulders.
>> Yeah. Could you just communicate that to
our audience what you mean by the
pebbles versus the boulders and what
we're being distracted by right now and
what we should focus on?
>> Well, I I think you know in in our case,
we are a a company that when we
announced our earnings last week, we
were 930 billion or plus or minus in
assets. We we've grown tremendously over
the 20 years that I've been there. And
for us to really have an impact on our
enterprise, we need to focus on large
river opportunities. And when I think
about the amount of software in the
non-investment grade world, it's a plus
or minus3400 billion dollar opportunity
set. There will be some winners and
losers there. We're not spending a
tremendous amount of time thinking about
the winners or losers there. I'm
thinking about how do I become a
retirement solutions provider in
Australia and Japan. Those are boulders.
The software, it it's a good
conversation. I will we be talking about
enterprise software and the impact on
defaults in 12 to 18 months. I think
there will be some conversations, but I
don't think it'll be the central
conversation on this show.
>> Jim, you're gonna stick with us. Jim
Zout of Apollo Global Management, the
president of Apollo is going to be
sticking with us. Let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Vonnie Quinn
has more. Hey, Vonyie.
>> Hey, John. Thank you. Meta agreeing to
deploy millions of Nvidia processors
over the next few years. The rollout
will include products based on Nvidia's
current Blackwell generation and the
forthcoming Vera Rubin AI accelerators.
Meta also says it plans to rely on
Nvidia's Grace CPUs for the first time.
Apple is accelerating the development of
three new wearable devices as part of a
shift towards AI powered hardware. Sourc
is telling us here at Bloomberg the
company is working on smart glasses as
well as AirPods and a pendant equipped
with cameras. Apple is said to be eyeing
a 2027 release for the smart glasses
while the AirPods and pendant could be
released as early as this year.
US and Iran are making progress in
nuclear talks held in Geneva under the
threat of American military strikes.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg,
Iran's negotiators are due to return in
two weeks with a new proposal. Earlier,
Iran said it reached a general agreement
with the US on a nuclear deal that would
lift sanctions and ease the risk of
military conflict. And that is your
Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Hey, Vonnie, thank you. More from Vonyi
later this hour. Up next on the program,
Japan betting big on the United States.
I just signed the largest trade deal in
history. I think maybe the largest deal
in history with Japan. We worked on it
long and hard and it's a great deal for
everybody. We're doing things that have
never been done in this country before.
And our country is becoming very rich
again.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Bloomberg's
Tyler Kendall and you'll hear more from
Apollo's Jim Zelta from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
Live from New York City. Welcome back to
the program. Equity futures positive by
0.5% on the S&P bouncing back. The
Nasdaq doing nicely up by 0.7. Under
Sylvanas this morning, Japan betting big
on the US.
I just signed the largest trade deal in
history. I think maybe the largest deal
in history with Japan. We worked on it
long and hard and it's a great deal for
everybody. It's a great deal. A lot
different from the deals in the past. I
can tell you that. We're doing things
that have never been done in this
country before. Our country is becoming
very rich again and that's the way it
should be.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
president praising Tokyo's plan to
invest up to 36 billion in US oil, gas,
and critical mineral projects. This is
the first tranch of its massive
investment pledge as part of the US
trade deal. With more is Bloomberg's
Tyler Kendall. Hey Tyler.
>> Hey John. Good morning. Well, this was a
long awaited announcement that officials
say will spur a wave of Japanese
investment here in the US. This round
includes three projects according to the
US Commerce Department. The first and
the one with the most money behind it
would be a natural gas facility in Ohio
which if built would be the largest in
the United States. The second is a crude
export facility off the coast of Texas.
And the third is a synthetic industrial
diamond manufacturing facility in
Georgia. Now, Japan's trade minister was
here in Washington just last week where
he said the country is not seeking
high-risk, high return investments. We
know financing decisions remain at the
discretion of the Japanese government.
Though at this point, it is unclear how
much of this will be direct investment
compared to say loan guarantees. Though
it is our understanding that profits are
set to be split 50/50 until Japan
recoups its initial investment and then
that split is going to go to 9010 in
favor of the United States. One thing is
clear though which is that once a
project is announced, Japan has 45 days
to fund it or else they could face
higher tariffs according to the trade
agreement reached between the two
countries. And as Japanese companies try
to navigate the current tariff regime,
which includes that more preferential
15% rate, data released yesterday shows
that Japanese exports are increasing at
their fastest clip in more than 3 years.
Though when you look at exports to the
US in January, they fell 5% from a year
prior. Uh John, prioritizing getting
this agreement into place will be top of
the agenda when Japan's Prime Minister
Takichi visits here in Washington next
month. Though we have to keep our eye on
this Friday when the Supreme Court could
rule on President Trump's broad-based
AIPA tariffs and that could complicate
matters including this trade agreement.
>> The big thing to watch going into the
weekend. Tyler, thank you. Tandle with
the latest in Washington. Jim's out to
the president of Apollo Global
Management still with us around the
table. Jim just back from Tokyo. Of
course, these numbers are big. Do you
still think we sit here and we
underestimate the amount of capital
investment that will be deployed into
this country over the next year?
>> I do. I think the administration uh went
out and they structured from our
understanding uh six of these
agreements, three in uh Asia Pac, three
in the Middle East. This is the first to
actually get announced. Um and when I've
been here before and we've talked, you
know, the center of the fairway in the
US economy and the global economy is
quite strong right now. You have an
administration that is very pro business
and very much into trade agreements and
bringing FDI into the US. You got a
major M&A boom. you got a major uh capex
boom. Um you know certainly the center
of the fairway is pretty strong. So I do
think you're going to see more of these.
I do think the worry is on the in the
rough if you would. So as I've spoken
about in terms of not only the concerns
inflation feels like it's a bit matted
down. Geopolitics is a bit matted down
right now. I think the worry that we see
is a bit of consumer sentiment. Some of
the consumer sentiment numbers are very
very challenging. They're not in the
data yet. Um, we'll keep an eye on how
those progress, but certainly this
administration is doing a a strong job
by this agreement plus the four or five
that are behind it.
>> The investments helping GDP. Is it
helping jobs growth?
>> I think that's a big open question right
now. And I think that when we have these
conversations um about uh the impact of
AI in terms of of of chips and capex and
energy and power um I think where we're
talked you know we've talked Torson's
talked a lot about this concept of a K
economy and I think you're going to have
more and more companies fit into that.
The top of the K is companies that are
winners that are that are having access
to capital that are getting data that
are getting energy and power to be able
to really benefit and the bottom of the
K is companies that are really under
tremendous amount of margin pressure.
And I don't think if you ask me what
like what's not in the marketplace long
term, I don't think the second and third
derivative of the long-term impact of
productivity and actual employment and
then consumer spending, I don't think
that's really in the marketplace. And I
suspect um if I was to get invited back
later this year to have that
conversation about the emergence of the
K economy, K companies and what's the
second and third derivative to consumer
confidence, consumer spending and the
overall economic growth.
>> Jim, you know, you have an open
invitation. Anytime you want to come,
you can be here. You will be here. I I
just want to build on that this idea
because there's a fierce debate right
now about whether AI really will disrupt
corporate America, whether it really
will eradicate the need for a lot of
white collar workers. What are you
seeing in portfolio companies? What are
you hearing from some of your colleagues
in the industry about how much people
are restraining from hiring people or
potentially ratcheting back their hiring
plans going forward as a result of some
of these technological shifts? I I think
there's the immediate euphoria when one
goes home and tries out these
applications and figures out what it can
do. They come in and say, you know, why
why are we doing X? Why are we doing Y?
But I I don't think you've seen broad
red broad broadbased
uh evolutionary strategy in hiring
across our portfolio companies. There's
certainly a degree of discipline that's
being that's bringing brought to the
forefront, but I I don't think there's a
massive strategic change at this point
that I've seen. I still think it's quite
a bit early. Uh I think people are
trying to anticipate uh productivity
gains and what makes sense in terms of
their business model, but I I've not
seen wholesale approach changes of
hiring in the companies that we've
overseen today. Now, there's there's
obviously exceptions to that. There's
some on the uh on areas that are much
more impacted that will take a greater
degree of of of change, but I I think
that's a story that will continue to
evolve. The hiring issue is a massive
problem potentially for the politicians.
How they respond to that I think is
really difficult to price. It's so far
out there. It's just not on the market's
radar right now. We're asking the
question, but I don't know if the
president can get through the idea of
saying capping interest rates on credit
cards is a risk. Can he get it through
Congress? Got no idea. Who's going to be
in the White House two years from now?
What kind of policies are they being
elected on? I don't know. But that's a
risk and it's something we're going to
have to confront in the years to come.
And right now it seems like there's a
constraint where Washington doesn't want
to fall behind China. So they don't want
to regulate a lot of the technology. And
when you get a response, it's going to
be when there are people angry, not
necessarily trying to be proactive and
try to do training programs and
incentivize companies to hire people to
potentially train in positions that will
be relevant.
>> Jim, 30 seconds. Got enough time for a
final word, please.
>> A pardon?
>> Got enough time for a final word. 30
seconds if you can.
>> You know, listen, I think I think this
last conversation is one we're going to
be continuing to have. I I think I think
this big the market the last 1015 years
monetary liquiditydriven and this is a
much broader evolution of a capital
allocation long-term retirement and
fiscal challenges and I think that's the
conversation that I suspect it may not
be dayto-day what's driving individual
stock performance but I think it will
drive economic performance over a cycle
and I know that's where we have
positioned there's I talk about the
boulders the boulders are still big
retirement problems around the globe
>> Jim Zansa of Apollo. It's good to see
you. Thank you, sir. The president of
Apollo Global Management. Coming up
next, we'll catch up with Mitchell Green
of Lead Edge Capital challenging the
narrative that enterprise software is
obsolete. Plus, Yhira has your morning
mover as Palanteer rising on a fresh
upgrade. That stock is up by 3% in the
pre-market.
The opening about two hours away. Equity
futures on the S&P positive by 0.4. On
the NASDAQ were higher by 0.6. If you
switch up the board and get to the bond
market, yields off the lows of the year
bounced yesterday encouraged by some
hawish Fed speak. Yields up by two basis
points this morning at the front end of
the curve. 34491
on twos. As we count you down, let's get
you some single names. Some morning
movers. Yhira has more. Hey yra.
>> Hi John. We start with Palanteer. Shares
are rising 3% and no it's not about its
move to Miami. It's on some sellside
action. Mizuo upgrading the stock to
outperform the analyst calling the
company in a category of one for its
combination of revenue acceleration and
margin expansion. The analyst also says
that the recent pullback in the stock is
resetting the valuation and they see
more than 40% upside from these current
levels. Moving on to cyber security firm
Palo Alto Network. Shares are falling
more than 6% in the pre-market after it
cut its profit outlook. Pelo Alto has sp
has been spending aggressively on
acquisitions. It even announced one
yesterday. So that push is weighing on
profits and that is doing little to ease
investor concerns around the name which
has which was down nearly 9% heading
into the earnings after the software
pullback that we've seen over the last
few weeks. And we typically think of
hedge funds when we're tracking these
13F filings, but today it's all about
Nvidia. It's creating some winners and
losers this morning. Take a look at
Apply Digital. Shares down 7.5%.
Recursion Pharmaceuticals also down
after it announced that it exited stakes
in those companies. But it's also
creating some winners with Synopsis, the
chip design software firm, up three and
a half% after a disclosed stake in that
company. John
>> Yara, thank you. 13F out of Nvidia.
That's the world we're in.
>> I mean, right now, Nvidia is the biggest
asset manager out there and can pick
winners and losers in the tech sector.
And who they bless gets blessed by the
market.
>> True. Big halo effect. Big halo effect.
Stocks are positive by about a third of
1% on the S&P this morning. On our
radar, the New York City mayor, Zuran
Madani, floating a last resort property
tax hike if Governor Kathy Hokll won't
raise taxes on corporations and the
wealthy. The mayor looking to help fill
a five billion dollar budget gap.
Elsewhere, Meta agreeing to deploy
millions of Nvidia processors over the
next few years, tightening its
relationship with the AI chip maker. The
roll out would include products based on
Nvidia's current Blackwell chips and the
upcoming Vera Rubin design. And finally,
the San Francisco Fed President Mary
Daly urging policy makers to recognize
signs that AI will impact the US
economy.
Right now, while we can't find it in the
macro studies that would do very
sophisticated empirical econometrics and
ask the questions, how much of this is
AI, we still can see that there's
something going on there. The question
isn't is it happening? The question is
how long will it persist?
>> Kevin Walsh, the president's Fed
chairpick, argues an AI fueled
productivity boom should lead policy
makers to lower interest rates. Some
push back to those comments just
yesterday. Honestly, this is anybody's
guess because you're not seeing in the
actual numbers and you can look at
Claude or you could look at uh Chat GPT
and say, "Wow, they're smarter than I am
and frankly they should probably be
doing my job." At the same time, the
frictions to get there are questionable
and how quickly that will really lead to
mass sort of reluctance to hire very
unclear. What we're seeing right now
with the productivity increases a lot of
people attribute changes that happened
after the pandemic more than AI adoption
yet. What this does though, clearly it's
going to be transformative. Again, how
many times can policy makers say, "I
don't know." If they say anything else,
well, they'd be lying because we don't
have a sense of exactly how this is
going to come.
>> Some people aren't burying their heads
in the sand, though. I thought you did a
great job of this yesterday, just really
outlining the difference between what
you're hearing from industry leaders,
the damage this could do to white collar
jobs, and what you're seeing from Wall
Street economists who are forecasting
decent GDP growth, and a recoupling with
payroll growth over the next 12 months.
>> This is the dilemma right now. How do
you get a situation where you have a
boom without jobs? Is that feasible? Or
are you still seeing people hiring
because frankly they didn't hire for so
many years after the pandemic? Is this
just essentially a response to quiet
quitting? If you're going to come to
work, you better do something otherwise
I'm going to have Claude come get you. I
mean, how much is this going to be to
create some difference? I mean,
ultimately, you know, we we don't know
and there clearly is something
significant going on whether this
results in unemployment rates shooting
higher. I mean, this is the real
question right now.
>> Let's keep it on technology. Anthropic
launching it second major AI model in
just under two weeks. further
intensifying pressure on the software
industry. The team at Lead Edge Capital,
a growth equity firm, writing, "The
complete obsolescence of enterprise
software is overblown. There will be
winners and losers, but the best
companies have an ability to adapt and
still have strong terminal value."
Mitchell Green, the founder of Leed
Capital, joins us now for more.
Mitchell, good morning. Good to see you.
>> I just smile as you guys say these
things.
>> Well, do you think I'm wrong? I think if
you are a company that has if you are
these AI companies just to find hundreds
of billions of dollars of AI spend, you
sure better convince the world that
every white collar job is going to just
>> So is this the IPO road show that we've
been talking about because that has
something is something we've suggested.
>> I think you're seeing I think we're in a
giant AI capex bubble right now and I
think it's going to end very bad. I do
think AI is going to revolutionize the
world. I don't think in the next two
years that AI is going to be doing your
you know the two of our you know taxes
and our your agents can be talking to my
agent and then they can negotiate our
salaries together.
I do believe that it's people
underestimate the long-term as aspects
of it but they sure overestimate the
near-term aspects. Remember in 2015
everybody was talking about self-driving
cars 20 thou 2000 we could have sat here
in the show talked about the internet.
You know who typically won the
e-commerce game? traditional retailers,
Walmart, Macy's, Home Depot.
By the way, in 2000, we could have sat
here. Social media, you know, now a
three trillion dollar market didn't
exist. And so, I just we're in the very
early this whole idea that software is
overblown is totally insane. You know, I
was with somebody that runs a big
hospital system yesterday and they were
like, I sure hope my IT department
doesn't start building HR software and
for my patients, I really hope our IT
department doesn't start, you know,
building all the like ripping out epic
systems and doing all this stuff. It's
like a bunch of nonsense.
>> So, near-term, long-term, let's start
with near-term. Call a capex bubble.
What makes it a capex bubble? Let's just
get into that first and then we can talk
about the long-term
>> amount of money being spent
in terms of how many dollars are going
into these things. And I think they want
to build something like 300 gawatt, you
know, whatever of of like capacity. If
you start to then actually analyze how
much power you actually need to do that,
you need how much power you need for
nuclear power plants and all these
things. You just we just don't have the
power in the United States to do this.
where I actually think a c country like
China could potentially like leapfrog us
in a lot of ways is they can get a lot
more capacity a lot easier than we do.
>> This is sort of a question around how
much XUS is really highlighting the AI
capex bubble in the United States and
saying well China is doing it better. Is
that kind of how you see it right now?
>> I think that's the way we see it. I also
believe just look at the the the models
coming out of China a lot of these open
source models which you can run locally
by the way are much more efficient. They
were developed at a fraction of the
cost. They requ and they require end
customers to spend a fraction of the
money. You know, you're running a Deep
Seek model versus running an anthropic
model. You know, again, I'm not saying
that Goldman Sachs or Morgan Stanley or,
you know, United Healthcare are going to
go run a bunch of Chinese models, but
you can run them locally. I do think
globally, you know, you're going to have
a lot of other companies that can say,
"Look, I can save 120th the cost and run
a model at uh, you know, in terms of,
you know, I just I'll run a Chinese
model. will be much cheaper. But the
idea that software is dead is absurd.
Toast grew 26% last quarter,
year-over-year. Data dog grew 29%.
Service Now grew 20%. Microsoft grew 15.
HubSpot grew 18. Like these companies
are not disappearing.
>> But the argument isn't that they're
going to die or that they disappear.
It's just the margins are going to
compress dramatically. That sort of the
barriers to entry come down
significantly given the fact that Claude
or Chat GBT can program a lot of this
stuff and get in and do a lot of what
they do uh pretty quickly. How would you
push back against that when it's sort of
a counterfactual? You can't sort of
disprove what some of the technology
could potentially evolve to.
>> Keep in mind that
software companies core competitive
advantages have never been about like
R&D. We're not building semiconductor
chips. These companies are not building
semiconductor chips like Nvidia or Intel
or things like that. And so,
yes, three guys in a shed can try can
get can use AI software to build try to
start building software, but keep in
mind Salesforce probably has like 10,000
software engineers. These people aren't
just like sitting around on their thumbs
doing anything. They're also going to
use the software. So, our belief is if
you're a software company and next year
you were going to have you thought you'd
have 200 software engineers a couple
years ago, we think you still should
have 200 software engineers, but guess
what? You should be able to build you
should be able to build do build more
code and more products with the same
amount of people. We do not think it is
a good idea for a company to cut their
to cut their you know engineering count
in half just because you can you can use
cloud and stuff. You should be using
claude as well to produce more products
and then you can use you know your sales
and marketing team which can be even
more efficient than it was before and be
more productive to even sell more. So we
think you very well could see a bunch of
now again you will have companies that
win and you will have companies that
lose in the in the internet e-commerce
you know of 99 and 2000 you know Target
won Home Depot won Walmart Amazon was
created new guess what Sears Bed Bath
and Beyond Kmart and a bunch of other
retailers Montgomery Ward and long list
went out of business it's because those
companies either were levered with debt
and didn't or didn't innovate the same
thing will happen here
>> Mitchell what do you think a bust is
going to look like you've called this a
capex bubble What do you think the bust
will look like?
>> If I could figure that out, I'd uh I
wouldn't be on TV talking about it.
>> Well, I think that's what a lot of
people are asking, watching as you
describe it.
>> What do I think is um we worry about
some of the stuff and like the private
credit markets. We just worry, we worry
about some of the circularity things,
but I look, you know, Palunteer was
upgraded today. It's an it's an amazing
company. We could argue if like the
right valuation or not or any of these
companies but like Alex and the team
have built an we don't own the stock
have built an incredible business. Um
and you know you are going to see a huge
amount of companies there will be
winners and losers like there are but
the whole idea of a whole industry going
away it's crazy like think about number
of people in Bloomberg you could go
people aren't you know this week people
aren't like you know all the all the
media companies are going to go to
business it's just not going to happen
like you're going to be able to do more
you're going to be able to be more
informed when you're on the air things
like that
>> you said something earlier that got my
attention new business models and things
we haven't even begun to think about.
>> Yes. Can you describe the kind of
opportunities that are opening up
already that you and the team have
identified?
>> Well, you we think you're going to see a
lot of things around like healthcare.
So, we're an investor in a company
called Pacemate. It makes like cardiac
monitoring software. If you put a if you
put a pacemaker in your body that that
that device has to send data to to the
end to like your doctor. Now what the
company has right now is a bunch of
people in this in the service center
that you know they can only each person
can monitor so many devices. Now can you
use a they're using AI to be able to
make it more efficient so they can
onboard more and more you know you know
cardiac clinics and not add as many
people to do it.
>> Which companies are most susceptible to
a AI capex cycle bubble bursting?
>> The the data center companies for sure.
I I think where you're going to people
are going to overbuild data centers or
not be able to get power to data
centers. Just go look what happened in
the telecom bubble when they overbuilt
capacity. The issue here is that's
what's a little bit different about it
is in the fiber bubble or the over
overbuilding of fiber they just capped
the lines and came back 10 years later.
The problem today is you put data you
put chips in these data centers like the
question is is how long is like the
depreciation curves. How big is the moat
that insulates a lot of US assets from a
capex bubble deflating given that that
has really led indexes higher? I mean,
how much is that part of what we're
seeing with people looking outside of
the United States?
>> I think people are worried about it, but
uh bubbles can go on like Howard Marx
has written amazing things about, you
know, when it looks like a bubble,
smells like a bubble, it probably is a
bubble. Trying to predict when these
things are going to pop is is a fool's
game. And you, by the way, being being
early to call the bubble and getting out
is this equivalent of being wrong as
well. Um, we just we struggle a lot with
just the absolute dollars that are being
thrown into this. We think it's very
real though and there will be giant
businesses created, but the amount of
capital being thrown at it and the
losses that some of these companies are
generating is absolutely like
mindboggling.
>> Can we finish on the politics? We've
talked in the past about bite dance with
you which has been caught up with
national security concerns. Alibaba
again more recently tied up with
accusations, allegations coming from the
US government and its ability to maybe
operate independently away from the
military in China or lack thereof. I
wonder what that opportunity is going to
look like in the years to come for you
and the kind of risk you'd be willing to
take in China with the opportunity
around the AI story if it is of the
utmost importance to national security
to beat China here in the US.
>> I think it's going to continue to be an
issue.
I both countries need to learn to work
together though. We're both two. We're
both two and I think you're starting to
see it.
two years ago, 18 months ago, it was
like, you know, if you look at stocks
like Alibaba or our 10-centent, they
they've doubled off the lows. I think
it's the market understands that both
countries need to figure out how to work
together. Otherwise, like, you know,
oneplus 1 equals four, not you know,
it's not the reverse. And so, um, but I
do believe that both countries are
going, you're going to see tons of this
stuff like, oh, you can use this Nvidia
chip, you can't use this chip,
restrictions on these things.
>> It's not holding you back from investing
in Chinese tech, though. We historically
have the stuff we've done in China has
historically been giant businesses that
generate giants amount of profit along
the way. We were investors in Alibaba.
Um but when we invested in Alibaba had
like billions of profits. Um Tencent
Music was a huge business. Ant Financial
is a huge business. Bite Dance Bite
Dance is a gigantic business. And so
there is we like to joke that if um a
Chinese company gets to us in New York,
they sure flew over a lot of people to
get to us. And so we're not investing in
like the early stage. go talk to like
Neil Shannon, guys like that that are
incredible early stage investors.
>> Mitchell, it's good to see you.
>> Yeah, thanks for having me on.
>> Given us tons to think about. Thank you,
sir.
>> Obviously,
>> thank you very much. Mitchell Green
there of Lead Edge Capital with his view
on a capex bubble already getting a lot
of feedback from Bloomberg subscribers
off the back of that this morning.
>> I mean, this is a $650 billion question
at least for four companies. Is it going
to be worth it? His attitude h not so
much.
>> Let's give you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief is Vonyie Quinn. Hey,
Vonyie.
>> Hey, John. Thank you. European Central
Bank President Christine Lagard is
expected to step down from her role
before her term ends October 2027. The
Financial Times is reporting Lagard
wants to leave before the French
presidential election in April of next
year. That move would allow French
President Emanuel Macron and German
Chancellor Fried Mer to find her
replacement together.
Shares of buyer falling in European
trading. The German conglomerate is
agreeing to pay more than 7 billion in a
bid to settle current and future cancer
lawsuits tied to its roundup. weed
killer. The proposed class action
settlement would resolve previous cases
and potential claims to be filed over a
21-year period. Buyer has reached
separate settlement with Roundup users
claiming the herbicide caused their
non-hodkkins lymphoma.
Jeff Bezos's space company Blue Origin
is vowing to beat SpaceX in the moon
race. The company's CEO spoke to Amry
Hordern at the Defense Tech Summit.
>> SpaceX doesn't have to lose for Blue to
succeed. What the US needs is it needs
two SpaceXes. It needs two launch
companies that are
competing vigorously against each other
to try to give us the most capabilities
as a country uh commercially, civily,
from a defense perspective uh because
our adversaries aren't standing still
and so we need we need to be moving very
quickly.
>> Blue Origins Limp also telling Amarie
that the company is shifting employees
from its space tourism program to focus
on lunar projects. And that's your
Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Hey, Vonyie. Thank you. More from Vonnie
in the next hour. Up next on a program
hiding from AI disruption.
>> There will be more of an emphasis on
people leaning into companies that seem
less disruptible where people are like,
no matter what happens, they're going to
go there. People are looking for the
places that are least vulnerable.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Oliver
Chant of TD Coward from New York City.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
equity future softer here or firmer
rather by a third of 1%. used to saying
softer but over the p previous two days
we've actually put out some marginal
gains particularly yesterday on the S&P
500 this morning up by a third on the
NASDAQ up by 0.4 Four. In the bond
market, yields continue to move off the
lows of the year up by a single basis
point at the front end of the curve twos
at 344. Under Savannah this morning,
hiding from AI disruption.
There will be more of an emphasis on
people leaning into companies that seem
less disruptible. You look at those
giant moes where people are like, no
matter what happens, they're going to go
there. There's a reason that people feel
more comfortable in that space right
now, even if it is a high valuation
space because it seems a little bit
harder to disintermediate buying stuff
with AI and it also seems like people
are looking for the places that are
least vulnerable.
>> So here's the latest this morning. AI
disruption fears driving a rally in
consumer staples. A test for the sector
on deck with Walmart earnings due out
tomorrow morning. Oliver Chen of TD
Cowan has a buy rating on the stock
writing the following. continues to be
bullish on Walmart's ability to gain
share across income cohorts. Oliver
joins us now for more. Oliver, good to
see you.
>> Pleasure being here.
>> Why is Walmart winning and winning in
quite a major way?
>> Walmart's doing a lot of things right.
Value and convenience is really key for
the customer, but you layer on a whole
retail ecosystem which involves
technology and monetization of
advertising as well as a marketplace
model. So you're getting that AI
component, but you're also getting value
and convenience. That being said, some
risk factors into tomorrow. Estimates
are fairly high for next year, looking
at double-digit growth. And this
company's a very conservative guider. So
near-term could be somewhat cautious on
a high PE, but long-term, it's our best
idea, and we've been recommending this
for many years. They've done a great job
pioneering the integration of AI into
retail. And as we look at structural
changes, retail is much like an
ecosystem and rethinking how to monetize
traffic in different ways is what
Walmart is doing well in addition to
having a bottom line excellent grocery
business which is really the basics of
retail.
>> Well, let's stay down the technological
aspect of all of this. So, Metro Green
of Lead Edge Capital was just on with us
and he really highlighted the fact that
the incumbent ended up winning the
internet race that Walmart ended up
doing really well. What's special about
the management teams within that company
that are able to develop alongside these
technological innovations?
>> What's been really exciting is proximity
really matters. So 90% of America within
10 miles of Walmart and we've been
talking about fidget for many years
which basically means physical meets
digital. Walmart a decade ago has really
been focused on robotics and inventory
management. And now you have value and
convenience plus a data flywheel. For AI
to work, it needs velocity, veracity,
frequency of purchase, context,
personalization, and grocery. It's
actually a very low margin business.
It's very hard, but you have that
frequency of the data, uh, which really
works in its favor. Overall, what we're
seeing is the importance of blending
physical and digital. And you mix in AI,
lots of personalization, the bottom
line, more convenient for the customer,
and you get inventory management as well
as personalization. So, a lot's working
and scale really does matter. So, the
future of AI will partly depend on scale
and thinking about these companies as
data platforms is what's happening as
well. Is Walmart winning at the expense
of everybody else? I mean, who else has
the fidget footprint? I just wanted to
say fidget. The digital footprint that
Walmart does and can really monetize it
in the same kind of way.
>> We're also excited about names like
Costco, but this theme is very true. The
big getting bigger. Uh, and that's true
because keep in mind Walmart's
e-commerce is just turning profitable.
So running these businesses is extremely
difficult in terms of profitability
because you do need the scale of many
many deliveries. Uh so that's that's
something to be seen. But the bottom
line is they've been taking share from
other players and grocery is somewhat
fragmented and having a leading loyalty
program is difficult. So it just raises
a question of how much bankruptcy and
how much we're going to see just
complete insolveny uh illittered in the
wake of the fidgetital uh dominant
player here of Walmart. I mean how
quickly do you see this transition
really transpiring?
>> It's another great theme in terms of
bifurcation where we see the high-end
really working uh and middle and lower a
little a lot more pressured. So retail's
been on this journey and what's been
tough is if you're stuck in the middle.
The regional grocerers as well as the
shopping mall as well as department
stores. It's been very difficult for
them to comp positively. Also Target is
a name we're watching too where consumer
discretionary and negative trends there
have really contrasted with the positive
4 plus at Walmart. Uh so the battle is
yet to be evolved but on on the future
is really this agentic revolution in
retail and what will need to happen next
in terms of customers expecting even
faster and faster deliveries. So lots of
drama ahead and it's been unfortunate
with Sachs Global
>> Target up 19% year today by the way some
people starting to buy into the
turnaround.
>> Yeah turnaround is the key question and
how much and how much those shares have
been down over the past few years. I
just wonder who can compete given the
footprint, given the scale of data and
how they can really monetize data in a
new way as well as some of the big
management teams. I mean that's how do
you how do you compete against Walmart?
>> You see that blink and we're talking
about Walmart.
>> I know he's but that is sold on Walmart.
That's the thing is that they're
catering to that Oliver 10 consumer.
>> Some of that is not available on
Walmart.
>> Well um there is great stuff on Walmart
from Vintage Hermes to even their
private label brands and Walmart's also
getting a higher income customer. So it
it's really benefiting from these
different forces at Tar and Target. A
lot of new management there. Um they
they have a a very joyous loyal
customer. However, it's been very
inconsistent and back to the basics of
retail. They need a faster supply chain.
>> I got to go. But that was a good save.
It's good to see you Oliver Champ of TD
Cow and thank you sir.
foreseen is a change in sentiment around
the tech and the AI trade.
>> AI is is is been sort of like a
heat-seeking missile looking at
different sectors.
>> There's definitely a lot of fears in the
market right now and not everything's
really rational.
>> The uncertainty in AI suggests that that
entire trade is going to remain
challenging.
>> It feels like the bull market and AI
disruption and hysteria has really taken
off. This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, the third hour of
Bloomberg starts right now. Your scores
look like this. The bounce continues.
Equities up on the S&P by 4/10en of 1%.
It fades a little on the NASDAQ. The
NASDAQ 100 still higher by 0.5%. In the
bond market, a bounce off year-to- date
lows on twos and tens. The 10-year yield
just about unchanged on the session, the
2-year at 345.
>> Yeah. And how much this has come because
of some Fed speak that was a bit more
hawkish. We did hear, of course, from
Goulsby and from bar talking about the
need to see more progress on inflation.
How much is this just the shifting sands
that we see in markets right now where
people sort of exhaust themselves in a
trade and then shift to another one. I
mean, it feels like an incredibly
technical market that we're trying to
give narratives to, but ultimately, good
luck because this feels like
whack-a-ole. And so, we're going to try
to talk about whack-a-ole this hour
>> when it comes to the Fed speak. 2 p.m.
Eastern time for the Fed meeting
minutes. Look out for that. We'll go
through all the details for you right
here on Bloomberg TV. The takeaway from
the last hour, Mitchell Green of Lead
Edge Capital coming out swinging,
calling this a major capex tech bubble.
>> Yeah, I wonder how much that's
underpinning a lot of the exus trade.
This fear that the United States, some
of the biggest firms are spending too
much money on the buildout. It speaks to
what we were speaking about with Eli
Ellias Galoo of Bank of America talking
about how a huge number of investors
think that a lot of these companies are
spending way too much and would like to
see it ratcheted back. Question is what
are they spending it on? You know, where
are the misinvestments going to be and
how does the market calibrate that at a
time of dramatic uh change? This
ultimately will be the question.
>> Ben Affleck should start his own Wall
Street research firm by the sounds of
it.
>> He probably has.
>> Those quotes, that statement to Joe
Rogan, a lot of people agree with it.
There's some big companies doing a lot
of spending that needs to justify some
rather large valuations. And there's
some IPOs coming to market later this
year that needs to justify some very
large valuations. And to do that, you
need to come out with some very big
headlines. And we've seen plenty of them
over the past few weeks.
>> All white collar jobs done in the next
12 to 18 months, buy our stock. And so
this is a reason why you're seeing some
skepticism cast on that, which goes to
the whack-a-ole. People freak out, then
all of a sudden things feel oversold.
People go back into that. This is sort
of a trading market without a real
cohesive narrative because there's a lot
that still is unknown about what this
technology will do and what the
ramifications will be on the labor
market.
>> Unfortunately, if you're exhausted by
all of this, this feels like the start
of a phase and not the end of one
>> and this might be the next year.
>> Are you just sick of this kind of
attitude? Please get it together. This
is going to be great.
>> Might define the year ahead.
>> It will. And it's actually exciting.
Don't get me wrong. Love it. It just is
a question of what is true and what is
actually just fiction.
>> Love it so much you're sick of it. By
February 18th,
>> whatever. It's going to be quite a year.
Futures positive by a third of 1% on the
S&P. Coming up this hour, Alicia Lavine
of BMY Wealth with Stocks Edging Kayak.
Gil Laura of DA Davidson on why it's
time to buy software. And Nuria Rabini
of Rabini Macro Associates with Fed
officials warning about the impact of AI
on interest rates. We begin this hour
with stocks rebounding. Alicia Lavine of
BMY Wealth writing, "The rotation is
painful in AI disrupted sectors and
likely due to revert later in the year.
We think there is room to run for tech
to regain leadership." Alisa joins us
now for more. Alicia, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Let's get into it then. Okay. Is this a
rotation or should we be preparing for a
much bigger index level correction?
>> So there's there's a clear rotation and
the rotation started November 1st of
last year. Very clear. And that is
because of two things. One, the spending
in the AI related names is now eating up
a lot of the free cash flow which was
the story of why you wanted to own these
names. they were seen as bonds throwing
off cash throwing you know and and so
you could get the higher multiple you
get you drive the margin of the entire
S&P through these names when that story
changes if 92% of the free cash flow is
going towards capex that's a different
story so then you have questioning of
the narrative and this started back in
November of last year because that's
when we had earning season we saw the
ratcheting up in some of these names
where all of a sudden maybe it's not
helping the business model maybe they're
not driving revenue venue from it and so
that there's the questions that's what
we're seeing on the and the other thing
that's happening is we have a great
macro backdrop globally US and globally
and so you have the cyclical rotation
get out of the names where you can't not
quite sure the capex is going to get you
anywhere and go to where you have growth
and lower valuations and everybody's
ignored and that's the story so I think
it's there's pain on the index to remain
but you know 70% of the S&P is above the
200 day moving average you did not know
that actually it's quite a strong market
underneath the index level. I think this
is going to remain for a while. Having
said that, there's clear like you can
get reversion to the mean all all
throughout the year. And I'd say the
issue now of course is the consensus
trade is get out of tech and go into
cyclicals. Like that is the consensus
trade. Go rest of world, go emerging
markets, go Europe. But now everybody's
talking about that. And in the meantime,
the dollar has not weakened any further
since the Kevin Walsh announcement.
Well, let's get to the consensus trade.
What does the recent performance and I
stress recent performance of banks and
discretionary tell you about that trade?
>> It's telling you that maybe the cyclical
recovery is not quite there. I mean, we
saw that actually with the housing data
so weak last year. You saw all of a
sudden yields drop and the bank starting
to sell off. The other consensus trade
coming to the year. We've been talking
about this at BNY, which is, you know,
the steepening of the yield curve is
really underpinning a lot of asset
allocation and a lot of trades. And what
we've seen as yields have come down,
you've had a flattening and all those
favored trades have have sold off a
little bit to like the real world,
right? So I call it the dirty
businesses, the materials, the
industrials, you know, transports, all
the stuff, physical world, making things
and that's where you're seeing the
capital going. I think ultimately
though, you know, if you're not going to
have that kind of growth and you still
have the best growth in the market
coming from tech, eventually investors
will go back to tech. So is that what
you're doing right now? Do you see this
as an opportunity?
>> So we've already reallocated we into the
end of the year. You know, we had that
massive outperformance of rest of world
in the first quarter of last year and we
said for the rest of the year, you know,
we just think that the US is going to
catch up on this. So we sat we sat still
we sat still because we were very
convinced that the US was going to
outperform the rest of the year and in
fact that's what happened. But in the
last year we did move allocation into
the rest of world emerging markets.
We're very bullish on emerging markets
because of the global growth because
there's been a global central bank
cutting of rates. You're getting the
growth coming in now and the dollar is
weaker. We don't think the dollar
weakens much further, but we don't see a
massive reversion to dollar strength
here. That's good for emerging markets.
So, we like it on the debt side as well
as the equity side. Is the money coming
out of the United States because it's
being pulled for the opportunities or
pushed because people are worried about
what Mitchell Green was talking about
with some sort of capex bubble that
seems like it's just destined for losses
and potential contagion.
>> Look, I think the market's done a good
job in rerating that risk, right? So, if
you think about what's happened just on
the MAG7, those names have been rerated
and the disrupted sectors have been
rerated as well. But I just want to make
one point about money coming out of the
US. money's coming into the US for the
US equity market. It is the allocations
that are also moving around a little
bit. I think that this not just the fear
of AI but the sense that there's
opportunity. So it's not a running away,
it's a running towards. If you think
about the underperformance of rest of
world since 2010, there's a lot of catch
up to do and so there's excitement about
the opportunities, not necessarily the
capex is going to kill the US market. We
don't see that. We think that the
rerating has done a good job of
preventing actually the bubble from
happening.
>> You've seen the Euro zone bank run over
the past three years. I was going
through the numbers. 2023 up 23%, 24 up
23%, 2025 up 80%.
If you're thinking about that trade now,
so much of that trade has already
happened in Europe in the financials.
They've had a massive run over the
previous three years.
>> Yeah. But now they've got materials
companies and suddenly the ball has
shifted in terms of what the story is.
And this is a reason why it feels a
little bit like whack-a-ole and follow
the uh the crowd because right now the
tide is shifting and it really benefits
the footsie. You've pointed this out the
idea that that's really the mining and
metals companies that are based there
and how much does that you know catch up
come from other places
>> and two names in South Korea. Yeah.
>> I mean talk about concentration in the
US. How much concentration risk am I
taking abroad at the moment? Well, we've
talked about this all the time. Last
year, when everybody was talking about
concentration risk in the US market,
actually compared to global markets, the
US market was not as concentrated as
Japan, as Korea, as Germany, as France.
It was much less concentrated in the US
at the top 10 being about 38 to 40%.
Germany, you've got 50%, Korea, you've
got something like 50 to 60%. Japan as
well. So there's concentrated risk in
every global market. It's not that it's
not a risk, it's that it's not unique to
here. And so what's here is that you've
got to keep corporate margins high. Now
the most recent quarter that's reported,
the fourth quarter, highest u operating
margins ever. Okay? So we keep on
ticking higher. That keeps the multiple
in that 20 to 21 times range. We don't
think that's expensive. That we think
that's reasonable. and earnings for the
fifth quarter in a row are coming in at
double digits, far outpacing estimates.
This is the fundamental for the market.
We see the S&P ending the year about
7,600. You know, you have to put a price
target on it. So, we do. But that
doesn't mean it's going to be an easy
walk. We always thought this year was
going to be a nonlinear year. And as I
like to say to my field line, nonlinear
means up and down, right? Not a straight
line. And we've had three years of a
straight line because of the AI trade.
We're moving around that. Well, let's
call it 10% upside is basically what
you're looking for on a cap weighted S&P
500. People have questions about that,
right?
>> And this will be the number one, I
think, is that can you have a prolonged
rotation without the index level
>> being dragged out?
>> So, the right now we have a technical
issue in the market in the sense that
the the technicals are starting to
deteriorate. You look at a chart of the
S&P, it's gone nowhere for three months.
It's starting it's sitting at the 200
day moving average. So, that's the
issue, right? like you have technicals
that can take over as well. What I like
to look at is okay, technicals are
technicals. The fundamentals tell me
where I'm going for the next 12 to 18
months. The capital we allocate is 12 to
18 months and we do long-term portfolios
over a cycle. So, I'm allocating around
that 12 to 18month horizon, but I care
most about the fundamentals. The
technicals will take care of themselves.
That can mean a bad day, a bad month, a
bad quarter, but we sit through it
because of the conviction of where it's
going.
>> We've had a few bad days over the last
week.
>> We have. That's for sure. Alicia, it's
good to see you. Thank you guys.
>> Alicia Lavine of BNY Wealth. A wild few
weeks at some points.
>> You know what it feels like? It feels
like having a toddler and you take them
to a store and they want that little
toy. You take them out of the store and
they're still screaming about that toy
for a little bit longer until they take
a nap and then they wake up and they're
fine. And then they go and they find
another toy and they're screaming and
they're screaming and you don't buy it
for them, etc. That's kind of what this
market feels like right now.
>> You think everyone needs a nap?
>> Is that basically what you're saying?
I'm lost. You think everyone needs a
nap?
>> People need to exhaust themselves.
Detects need to exhaust themselves
before you shift to another narrative.
>> You're having quite a morning. You are.
All right. Let's give an update on
stories elsewhere this morning. With
your Bloomberg brief is Vonnie Quinn.
Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. Japan plans to
invest $ 36 billion in US oil, gas, and
critical minerals projects. It's the
first part of a $550 billion commitment
under the trade agreement struck with
President Donald Trump. The investments
include a natural gas plant in Ohio that
the US says will generate more than 9
gawatts of power. Also, a deep water oil
export facility in the Gulf of Mexico.
Anthropic releasing a new AI model that
it says is better at using people's
computers in increasingly complex ways.
Code Solid 4.6 can perform multi-step
actions on a computer, such as filling
out web forms and coordinating
information across several browser tabs.
Anthropic also says the model is more
resilient against security threats.
MSG Sports says its board of directors
unanimously approved a plan to consider
splitting its New York Knicks and New
York Rangers businesses. According to
Business Wire, the move would create two
separate publicly traded companies. If
the company follows through, the
transaction will be structured as a
tax-free spin-off to all shareholders.
And that is your Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Hey Vonnie, thank you. Appreciate the
update. More from Vonyie later this
hour. Up next, the morning calls. Plus,
Gil Laura of DA Davidson saying it's
time to buy the software sale.
conversation up next. Live from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
On a short-term basis, the software
sector has underperformed the overall
market by the most uh since 20 uh 2000.
So I do think this sector is deeply
oversold, ripe for a bounce, but I I
don't expect it to be new leadership
because of that kind of inability to
disprove the narrative uh longer term.
But again, I think it is oversold here
on a shorter term basis.
>> In other words, take a nap. That was
Keith Lerner of Truist. All right, this
advice coming from Brammo this morning
that you all just need a little snooze.
>> Okay, that is not what I said over the
weekend.
>> I just said that seems like having a
toddler, that's all.
>> Insulting our audience.
>> I'm not insulting them. behaving like
toddlers that need what a sippy cup. And
>> listen, I'm saying that the we're really
doing this. We have lots of things to
talk about other than this. Let's move
on.
>> Let's get to the price action. We're
positive by 0.4% on the S&P on the
NASDAQ up by 0.5. Clearly, you all had a
snooze last night. Let's get to your
morning calls. First up, Morgan Stanley
lowering its price target on PaloAlto,
citing weakness in services revenue.
Your second call from City cutting its
price target on Snowflake due to
multiple compression in the software
space. And finally, Mizuo are grading
Palunteer to outperform, saying the
company is quote delivering total
revenue growth and margin expansion at
scale unlike anything else in software.
That name is up by 3% this morning.
Let's stick with Software Anthropic
launching its second major AI model in
under two weeks. The release adding
pressure to the industry already under
siege over the past few weeks.
Bloomberg's Anor Rana joins us now for
more. Anorag, let's talk about the
product. What do we know about the
latest release?
>> No, these are absolutely phenomenal
models. is they can help your
productivity boost quite a bit whether
it's on the um you know just the your
workflow point of view or controlling
the computer. So I think the pace of
innovation coming out from enthropic has
been so impressive in the last 12 months
uh that it is you know giving a pause to
let's say the you know the funding round
of probably open AI at this time.
>> Where does it leave existing software
players anorag which have been under
siege over the last two weeks or so? In
fact the whole sector's been trading
soft since last year. what's behind that
and how are those companies attempted to
counter it?
>> Yeah, I mean this is an absolute, you
know, I would say genuine worry that a
large model like anthropic can come out
and eat a lot of what they do. It's a
very high margin business. So the worry
is absolutely real. uh but our take is
when you look at some of the larger
vendors you know the likes of you know
SAP, workday, service now I think these
guys are embracing all these models at a
very fast pace and they will enhance
their own products and ensure that they
are continuously innovating and not be
left behind you know from a from a
startup like anthropic
>> and to see Microsoft down to the extent
it is down by about 27% since the end of
October that's a name you cover what's
your reaction to a move like that.
>> I think it's a lot of it is tied to the
open AI funding round and the trade
because you know we have seen them
expanding their capex the revenue has
increased and they talked about capacity
constraints unless you know otherwise
Azure would have grown over 40%. So I we
you know we think over uh the long term
Microsoft is one of the AI winners but
right now you are digesting a lot of
investments that are going in into their
platform and people are looking for the
ROI or the improvement in sales growth
growth rate like what Google showed but
you know both Amazon and Microsoft have
not shown that.
>> Anorak good to see you Anna there of
Bloomberg Intelligence. Gil Laura of DA
Davidson weighing in on software saying
this the software route appears
overdone. We love the opportunity to buy
software at these valuations. Gil joins
us now for more. Gil, welcome to the
show. Those stocks, many of those names
in that sector have been absolutely
hammered. Let's talk about why you
believe this is the moment to step in.
What gives you the conviction to make
that call?
>> Because software stocks have never
traded at these multiples and yet their
growth is very robust, especially the
ones in the categories that aren't
really even in a position to be
disrupted. So if you're providing the
infrastructure for AI which is
Microsoft, Service Now, Snowflake, Data
Dog, Dino Tra, JRock, there's a whole
list of companies that are not only
providing the infrastructure for AI
already seeing revenue acceleration, but
also providing these services to those
AI native companies to open AAI and
Anthropic. They're doing phenomenally
well, and they're trading at
unprecedented multiples. These are all
companies that three years ago we were
talking about them trading at 50 times
revenue, 100 times revenue. Now we're
talking about them trading at 20 times
cash flow, 30 times cash flow. So it's
it's an opportunity to buy them at a
fantastic point in terms of their growth
at an unprecedented low valuation. It's
it's an opportunity the market's given
us as it's over rotated and we recommend
that investors participate. Microsoft is
different than Snowflake in that not
only is it a software provider, but it
also is investing tens and hundreds of
billions of dollars in the
infrastructure that goes behind this.
One of the big concerns is that they're
overinvesting and that they're going to
suffer a lot of losses as a result. I
mean, how do you sort of counter that
narrative of the change business model
of a lot of these hyperscalers?
>> So, first of all, Microsoft's growing
faster than it has in a long time,
revenue and earnings. So, it's doing
very well. Uh, and the capex investment
is very substantial. To your point,
they're using all their cash flow.
They've already pre-sold all of that
capex. They've pre-sold all these data
centers in three to five year contracts
at a markup. Meaning that return is
already built into these data centers
they're building. Now, they're fully
aware of the fact that because there's
so much buildout in the industry, there
may end up being an overbuild at some
point. They're fully aware of that. And
there's two things they're doing about
that. One is they're they're putting
overflow capacity with other companies,
Oracle, Cororeweave, and others. So
they're not building to all of their
demand. They're reselling other people's
demand to make sure they're not
overbuilding. And then they're also
consciously building it in a fungeible
way. Meaning if three years from now
they realize the industry has built too
many data centers they can pause and
digest that growth. They could use those
data centers for the existing storage
business for AI compute wherever it is
and then digest it reduce the capex
significantly at that point while
realizing those returns from the
contracts they've already sold. This is
a very deliberate, wellthoughtout
strategy that they're executing very
well. They just won't get credit for it
until those returns come in. But in the
meantime, you can already see the
revenue acceleration. To your point,
they could have grown Azure more than
40%. That's a $120 billion business that
they just grew 39% and somehow investors
were disappointed by that.
>> Gil, it's really interesting. So, a lot
of people come on the show and they talk
about a contradiction that investors
both don't like the capbacks, but they
also believe that there's going to be
such massive disruption that a lot of
software companies are going to go out
of business. Pick one. You're picking
both. You're saying that not only will
there be significant advances from this
capex and will it be justified? But
these software companies will not be
disrupted and they actually will be
successful. Why do you think that it's
okay to have both sides of the story
that you don't need to see that level of
disruption and potentially white collar
jobs eradicated in order to justify some
of these investment uh plans that some
of the hyperscalers have
>> because AI doesn't do what enterprise
software companies do? AI is a is a
cognitive task machine. It replaces
labor. It enhances labor. It will make
us better. It will make us more
productive. It will help us use software
better for the foreseeable future. All
these software packages are going to be
used by humans and by AI. AI is going to
be a labor enhancer. It's it's not
addressing the enterprise software
market. It's addressing the labor
market. And and that's the profound
misunderstanding here. AI is a
phenomenal technology. The capabilities
are are now growing exponentially and
will grow even more exponentially once
the models become recursive, but they'll
make us more productive as employees, as
consumers, which will make us use
software even more effectively. Software
companies understand AI better than
anybody else. They're implementing,
they're adapting to it. And frankly, for
them, it's a cost that's now going down.
Software companies don't sell software,
they sell services. Software is a cost
for them. And that cost is now going
down very substantially because AI is
the best at writing code. And so they
actually have an opportunity to increase
margins even further, which they are
doing. It's just the market's ignoring
that right now as it aggressively
rotates into Walmart at 50 times.
>> Gil, thank you, sir. Lots to think
about. Gil lura there of DA Davidson.
big move into Walmart 50 multiple. It's
kind of wild going into earnings
tomorrow. AI is a labor multiplier is
the takeaway from that conversation
going into another conversation with an
economist in just a moment who's got a
similar way of looking at things.
>> Yeah. Another way of putting that long
software, short humans, right? I mean,
how much is this that the ultimate trade
is that actually these names are going
to be just fine. The problem is is that
there will be fewer people who will be
needed for those jobs. The issue I have
if you compare it to say the internet
lazy imperfect example but let's take
the newspaper business didn't replace
the writer replace the point of delivery
that you took it from a physical
newspaper to a web page but the writer
still had a job. This in many ways it's
about replacing the writer in some cases
that is the stated aim the stated goal
>> and there were a lot of people who put
the text on the page all of those page
placements that also lost their jobs.
There are job displacements in this
process.
>> We'll talk more about this in just a
moment. Nancy Lazar of Piper Sandler
expecting capex to accelerate economic
growth through the year ahead. Plus,
Yihara has your morning movers. Looking
at Madison Square Garden Sports, that
stock is up by 9%.
Couldn't we make it a third day without
losses? On the S&P right now, up by
0.4%. 4% on the NASDAQ up by 0.5 and the
Russell just about in positive territory
with your morning movers. Let's cross
over to Yahira for more. Hey yhra.
>> Hi John. We are seeing Amazon shares up
1.4% in the pre-market rebounding and
building on yesterday's gains when it
snapped a 9-day losing streak over its
capex plans. And the rebound coming even
with Bergkshire Hathaway slashing its
Amazon stake by more than 75% last
quarter. That was according to its 13F
filing, which was the last under CEO
Warren Buffett. And speaking of those
13F filings, we usually think of Warren
Buffets, Berkshire Hathaway, of course,
and hedge funds. But it's Nvidia
stealing stealing the spotlight. It's
creating some winners and losers due to
its 13F. It exited stakes in Applied
Digital and Recursion Pharmaceuticals.
So those shares are plunging, but also
creating a winner in Synopsis. Those
shares are up 3% after it disclosed a
position in that company. And we end on
Madison Square Garden Sports. Those
shares up nearly 9% in the pre-market on
breaking news moments ago that the board
has unanimously approved exploring a
spin-off of its two marquee franchises.
The company is considering separating
the New York Knicks and New York Rangers
into two distinct publicly traded
companies. No timetable yet and no
guarantee it gets done but investors
clearly liking the idea of being able to
in to invest in their sports teams. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Appreciate the update.
Yhara there with your morning movers
going into the open up and about 60
minutes from now. Got some breaking data
just moments ago. Mike McKe has more.
Morning Mike.
>> Good morning John. We're getting the
last data that goes into the fourth
quarter GDP figures and so it does
matter. Durable goods orders for
December down 1.4% 4% on a headline
basis. But the number that will affect
the GDP is capital goods orders
non-defense xir. Uh that's up a healthy
6/10en of a percent after an 8/10 rise
in November, a revised 8/10 rise. So
some strength in durable goods orders
going into the end of the fourth
quarter. And that should provide a
boost. Housing starts are out for
December. 1,44,000.
That is an increase uh from the October
figure. We had a a sort of November
figure that didn't uh that didn't get
published because of the the the uh
government shutdown. But the number
there you kind of want to look at is the
uh number of housing completed 2.3%
above the November estimate, but down
from December of 2024 still shows
there's a how housing shortage out
there. Uh but uh those numbers will all
feed into as well as some inventory
numbers will feed into fourth quarter
GDP. Look at the Atlanta Fed GDP now
figure that'll come out around 11
o'clock uh in the morning.
>> Mike McKe looking at the data. Just to
move on quickly, Mike, the Fed story of
the last 24 hours. Big debate starting
to emerge about what AI will do to
productivity and ultimately what that
should do to the neutral rate. What are
people telling you, Mike?
>> Well, everybody is on hold right now and
what they're looking at are a number of
different things. Of course,
unemployment low but steady. Uh
inflation stablish but not falling. And
you've got the Iran war threat pushing
up oil prices. All things the Fed has to
consider. But in the last couple of
days, all we've heard about is AI, AI,
AI, uh from a lot of different members
of the Fed. Jefferson, Philip Jefferson,
the vice chair, Michael Bar, uh Mary
Dailyaly, all talking about the impact
in the shorter run of AI. long run, it
could have productivity gains that would
be helpful, but in the short run, it
could push the neutral rate higher
because there's competition for the
available lending dollars and that would
mean that the Fed doesn't cut as much
and has to worry about with inflation uh
rising rates. Goulsby does see cuts if
inflation falls, but I think the if is
doing a lot of work right there. And
remember, the next meeting isn't until
March 18th. There's one on April 29th as
well. And the questions there is we're
going to have a lot more data including
a new CPI, PPI, and jobs report as well
as a PCE before even that March meeting.
So, uh, we'll get some information today
from the minutes 3 weeks old. Not sure
that that or this data are going to
really set us up to make any firm
decisions on what the Fed's going to do.
>> Mike McKe, thank you, sir. Mike down in
Washington, DC. Let's keep it on tech
and the US economy. Nancy of Piper
Sander writes this. Between the AI arms
race and the one big beautiful bill, 8%
total GDP capex estimate for 26 is too
low and something closer to 12% is more
realistic. Nancy joins us now for more.
Nancy, good morning. Good to see you.
>> Good morning.
>> These are some big numbers. Where does
that leave total GDP for the next 12
months?
>> Well, overall GDP is probably going to
be about 3%. There will be some offsets.
that is you are likely to see
deterioration in trade in 2026 uh as we
increase imports after the tariff uh
decline in trade in 2020 2025 so net
we're using three but I would say there
certainly is upside to that number
something closer to four particularly
for the first half of the year
>> three to four and a decent chunk is tech
capex
>> so how labor intensive is that growth
>> well the key theme for 2026 is actually
you're moving away from just tech just
S&P 500 just highinccome consumers to
2026 you're seeing a broadening out in
the economy. Not just tech, you're
seeing uh heavy truck orders, for
example, have increased dramatically.
You're seeing non- techreated equipment.
You're going to see more and more signs
of factory construction. So, the theme
for 2026 is actually you're going to
have a broadening out, a healthier
economy. That middle to low income
consumer is going to uh is going to
benefit along with more classic uh capex
related uh construction.
>> Why do you think that there will be this
broadening out if the sentiment surveys
aren't keeping pace? If you're starting
to see some of the retailers that cater
to middle and lower inome families talk
about the struggle that's showing up in
their numbers. What gives you confidence
that that's going to change?
>> Well, you are seeing green shoots in
goods producing jobs. You saw it in the
S&P uh manufacturing employment
component, not the ISM but the S&P uh
their uh goods producing employment
component has clearly increased. We saw
manufacturing jobs in January uh also uh
also increase. I've talked about this
before. We have our own daily consumer
confidence survey. It's been very robust
as we start uh uh the new the new year.
It's not just the high-end consumer. We
are seeing non-investor consumer
confidence also improve. So when we
really look under the hood, we are
seeing this this broadening out and and
don't forget that was fourth quarter.
The question is where are we going to go
here in the first part of 26? And and I
think it will be a healthier, more
broad-based economy supported not just
by the high end but also the middle to
low end. People have been waiting for
the strength that we saw in the services
sector to shift over into manufacturing
and it does seem like that's starting to
happen. At the same time, you are
starting to see signs of weakness in the
services sector. We just got the New
York Fed services uh index that came in
at the lowest since 2021. So, at what
point do you start to see this and say
they're not going to necessarily just
offset each other that manufacturing
really will carry the baton into strong
growth?
>> So, the higherend consumer certainly was
a big support for the service sector,
uh, hotels, travel, etc. uh in in in
2025 that very well may moderate some uh
in 2026 but again it's it's more of a
broad-based healthier economic uh
economic backdrop. Goods producing jobs
are magical uh in that they do create an
economic multiplier. They do create a
jobs multiplier as we're just talking
about growing up in Flint, Michigan. We
clearly saw that for my father, not for
me. Uh with the construction of
factories, you did see he wasn't in the
factory business. He was a pharmacist.
And so goods producing jobs are really
magical and you see that unfolding right
now, particularly down south. uh in in
in South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama,
Mississippi, Texas, uh where you are
getting these good producing jobs. So,
it's it's a different economy as we
shift into 2025, but I would argue a
healthier, more broad-based economy.
>> Is the neutral rate moving up?
>> Pardon me.
>> Do you believe the neutral rate is
moving up?
>> I'm not a believer in the neutral rate.
I'm a believer in potential GDP growth.
I'm a believer in nominal GDP growth. Uh
and those things do suggest, yes, the
interest rate structure doesn't need to
go back down towards zero. That the
economy via productivity. I'm excited
with the Fed talk about productivity. Uh
Powell actually started it back in
December, continued it uh in in in his
last press and now we're getting more
Fed uh people talk about it. In a higher
productivity environment, you have a
stronger potential GDP environment. And
in the '9s when you had that backdrop,
um you Greenspan lowered rates 75 basis
points in 95. Then real rates actually
rose as you went into 96. Inflation
slowed, but real growth was actually
higher. in a healthier productivity
environment, stronger potential GDP, you
have higher real incomes. You don't need
uh lower rates. And if you get them uh
as as Greenspan eventually did in 98,
you end up with two big uh strong growth
and you end up with a boom and then a
bust. So,
>> do you think that's a risk over the next
12 months?
>> I I don't I mean, I'm quite excited
about the new Fed Fed chair. He he has a
history of uh indeed being a I would
call it a more I don't want to call him
a a hawk. I would call him a more
responsible uh central uh central.
>> What do you think his northstar will be?
uh something aligned with potential GDP
growth uh real real potential GDP growth
which again could be something close to
3%.
>> At this point going forward I'm just
curious about the frictions in adoption
that are going to lead to that
efficiency and we keep talking about AI
and what this could essentially do but
it's going to take some time. You hear
from companies they're not necessarily
changing their hiring plans just yet
because of artificial intelligence.
They're not sure exactly how it's going
to be deployed to a lot of different
companies. What gives you confidence
that increased productivity is a 2026
story in terms of its uh relationship to
AI?
>> So, first I love your point that it
takes time. I went back and looked at
the '9s of of uh retail bookstores were
going to be a obviously a huge risk
associated with the internet and indeed
by 2000, 5 years after the internet boom
really started, you then finally started
to see retail book employment decline.
uh uh bookstores start starting starting
to close. It takes time for this to
impact. Uh uh second on productivity in
particular, it really started to improve
last cycle. You saw it sort of inch
higher huge debate 2016 17 18 and and
and and 19. So why did it start then?
Because you had a capital spending cycle
that actually started in 2010 11 12 13.
It was again led by tech not AI but
tech. And so you did eventually start to
see cap uh productivity improve in the
back half of the last cycle paused
certainly by uh by by the COVID crisis
and now that's re-engineering. It's not
as if and now there's productivity. It's
been in an improving trend.
>> So you could see Fed rate cuts even as
we get all this capback spending because
of this inflation because we aren't
seeing that boom yet from productivity
tied to AI.
>> I'm not convinced you get Fed rate cuts.
Again, I'm I'm listening to what the Fed
current Fed uh people are talking about.
They're focused on productivity is
already improving. uh Powell said it at
the uh at his December presser that
predictivity was an arising trend for
the past five six years not just related
to AI which I totally totally agree
with. So again, it's not just inflation
that drives uh the rate structure. As we
saw in the back half of the 1990s,
inflation slowed sharply, but real
growth was 4%. Um, and at the end of the
day, the Fed cut rates in 95. Uh, then
they did it again in '98, but on
balance, uh, the rate structure stayed
higher than I think people would have
assumed because of that strong real
growth, strong real income. Um, not just
real GDP, but also strong real income.
>> Nancy, it's good to see you. Some
optimism for the years ahead. Thank you,
Nancy Lazada of Piper Sandler. Stocks
are positive by a few ten of 1% on the
S&P with an update on stories worldwide
with your Bloomberg brief. Let's cross
over to Vonnie Quinn. Hey Vonyie.
>> Hey John. Meta agreeing to deploy
millions of Nvidia processors over the
next few years. The rollout will include
products based on Nvidia's current black
belt generation and the forthcoming
Bureau of Ruben AI accelerators. Meta
also says it plans to rely on Nvidia's
Grace CPUs for the first time.
Construction work on a $16 billion rail
tunnel under the Hudson River will
restart as soon as next week once the
full $25 million of federal funding is
received. The Gateway Development
Commission has already received about
half the frozen money and anticipates
receiving the remaining $98 million to
begin restarting the work.
Steven Coar says he was blocked from
airing an interview with a Democrat
seeking a US Senate seat in Texas. Colar
says CBS's lawyers were worried the
interview would violate federal fairness
rules. The interview with Representative
James Celerico was posted to the show's
YouTube channel. And that is your
Bloomberg brief. John,
>> some decent marketing because I'm sure
the hits on the YouTube video were great
and I'm sure that was the intention,
too.
>> Another road show.
>> You know, in the UK, this is pretty
standard stuff, right? We used to have
to manage this. In fact, the team in
London manages this all the time. You
have to make sure that if you give one
person air time, you give another person
air time. It's fairly down the middle.
That's what you expect. the regulations.
>> I'm taking a page from this next time
I'm outraged about my coffee. I plan to.
>> Bremo refused. She refused to let Rabini
come on the program live on TV, so I'm
posting it to YouTube.
>> Yeah, that's a good idea.
>> Bremo refused.
>> Well,
>> and and I've got the piece of paper
here. Bremo said I'll get sued. This is
how you throw me under the bus. I think
you need a nap. Going to
>> break all the rules. Rabini's coming up
next.
Trying to predict when these things are
going to pop is is a fool's game. Being
early to call the bubble and getting out
is this equivalent of being wrong as
well. We struggle a lot with just the
absolute dollars that are being thrown
into this. We think it's very real
though and there will be giant
businesses created. But the amount of
capital being thrown at it and the
losses that some of these companies are
generating is absolutely like
mindboggling.
>> That was Mitchell Green of Lead Edge
Capital. Absolutely fantastic. Very
opinionated earlier on this morning and
pushing back against what he calls a
major tech capex bubble.
>> Yeah. And he's got money behind it. I
mean, he's been investing increasingly
in Chinese technology and frankly in a
lot of US tech as well. But it's saying,
look, a lot of this money is going to be
throwing good money after bad, which
really raises the question of how are we
misvaluing some of the hyperscalers at a
time where they're spending $650
billion, four companies. It's just
absolutely mindboggling.
>> The numbers are absolutely humongous.
Equity futures right now, the S&P
positive by a third of 1%. Your week and
day ahead shaping up as follows. At 1
p.m. Eastern time, a White House press
briefing. 2 p.m. we get those Fed
minutes. Tomorrow, Walmart earnings plus
another round of jobless claims on
Friday. Core PCE sentiment plus a
possible, I stress possible, Supreme
Court decision on President Trump's
tariffs. Turning back to the Fed,
officials suggesting productivity growth
from AI could lead to higher interest
rates. Noran Rabini of Rabini Macro
Associates joins us now for more. Noral,
good morning. Good to see you.
>> Great seeing you.
>> Walked into the studio and said, "No
longer Dr. Gloom." Dr. Boom. Is that
right? What's behind the new Dr. Boom?
Well, I've been arguing for over a year
that u there's a proive degrowth uh
acceleration because of technology of
the future. Everybody's obsessed about
geni, but there's also semiconductors,
robotic automation, quantum fusion,
defense tech, fintech, new material
science, space exploration, biomedical
research, and so on and so on. They're
all related to I, but they're all
separate essentially siloses and
verticals. in each one of them thanks to
a high there's going to be a significant
boom US is add in most of them China is
ahead in some of them so this is a game
between US and China that's why I've
been saying that potential growth in the
US is already well above 2% and by the
end of the decade is going to be closer
to 4%. I'm quite convinced of that when
I say to economists they say you're
crazy 4% growth but when I speak to
technologist they tell me you're still
Dr. doom because 4% is too low. It's
going to be higher than that, but I
think it will be close to four.
>> Let's say you're right. How does that
change the outlook for interest rates if
at all?
>> Well, you know, Kevin Walsh argues like
some others that that implies that
because we're going to have lower
inflation that justifies lower Fed funds
rate. I think is incorrect because um if
potential growth is higher the
equilibrium real long rate and also the
real short rate fed funds rate has to be
higher because there's a correlation
between real growth potential and real
interest rate. It's true that then
inflation will be lower than 2% maybe
closer to zero. But today say you have a
Fed funds rate where most of it is
inflation and one and a half of it is
maybe the real rate but once you have a
growth of 3 4% equilibrium real rate has
to be at least 3%. Maybe inflation is
one and then you get still at a 4%
nominal. So having a lower inflation
doesn't justify lower Fed funds rate if
growth is higher and growth is going to
be higher. I think there's a fallacy in
that argument.
>> Well, he might deliver it either way.
And if that's the case, if there is a
bias to cut at this FOMC in the face of
what you're predicting, do we face a
real risk of overheating?
>> Oh, yes. But I'm not sure he's going to
be able to deliver it. You know, in the
Fed system, the Fed chair is a primos
interpart is a constitutional monarch.
He's not an absolute monarch. One vote
and he has to convince the rest of the
FMC to go along. And if the economy is
strong as it is and is accelerating if
inflation is still well above, you know,
target and if it's not going to fall
very much, it'll be hard even to justify
one rate cut to this year, let alone two
of them. So you cannot really bully the
committee. It could end up into a
minority and be outvoted. So I'm not
sure. And the data so far don't justify
having lower Fed funds rate. Maybe one
cut later this year in the second half
if gradually inflation is going to be
slightly lower but growth is going to be
very strong this year much stronger than
the last year I mean Q3 growth was 4.3%
the last estimate of Q4 is 3.7
so we don't even have that growth how to
say recession that everybody was
predicted there's actually a growth
acceleration and this year is going to
be even stronger because you have the
tailwinds from AI continuing you have
easy financial condition. Stock market
and other indices are all damn high. You
have the monetary easing in the pipeline
and you have fiscal stimulus because all
the spending cuts were pushed until
after the midterm election. So you have
strong forces that will lead to
acceleration of the economy, not the
slowdown of the economy.
>> I remember once upon a time I knew
someone whose name was Dr. Doom and he
talked about fiscal deficits.
>> Yeah.
>> He talked about the breakdown of world
order.
>> Yeah.
>> He talked about inflation. Yeah. He
talked about a shift away from the
financialization of a world where
suddenly you couldn't get these returns.
What happened to him?
>> You know, I wrote this book mega threats
in 2022 when I said that lots of trends
are going to lead to lower growth and
higher inflation and that's exactly what
happened. There were a whole bunch of
factors but there also chapters on AI in
which I said if things that look like
may happen but hadn't happened yet
because at that time in October 22
charge GPD was not out yet. The proof
that you could do fusion energy was not
there. The improvements in quant were
not there. All those things happened.
They were already in the book. And I
said if those things are going to happen
to be an acceleration of growth,
reduction, inflation and therefore we'll
be in the utopian equilibrium as opposed
to dystopian. And what those was
speculative at that time has
materialized as being real since then.
So since it happened and I was writing
about it. Now I'm believing that
actually tech optimism as I said tech
trumps tariffs because tech is first
order. 200 basis points increase in
potential growth and everything else
that is how to say stackflationary that
is not just tariff reduction in
migration fiscal deficit feeling with
independence on the Fed feeling with the
rule of law all the other things are
second order so I said tech trumps
tariff but also tech trumps trumps
temper tantrums too because all those
things are second order and market
discipline has forced him last year as I
exactly predict in April to back down
when the record down. He was forced to
do deals on trade that pushed the tariff
rate from 30% to 14 and falling every
day. So,
>> okay. So, Dr. Boom, the the sort of gap
between dystopian and utopian pretty
wide. And I'm just wondering what
happened to some of the political
aspects of this, especially as it
relates to jobs. I mean, if there is
significant job loss, won't the
political backlash be somewhat
significant? I mean, how do you sort of
dismiss the dystopian chapters in your
book?
Well, I I do believe that eventually
we're going to get a permanent
technological unemployment, but it's
going to be a bit of a inverted kind of
a J curve. Initially, actually, demand
for labor is going to increase because
you have to build all this data center.
There'll be an investment boom and not
just in AI across the economy.
Therefore, demand for labor is going to
increase. We're already at full
employment. So, for a few years, we're
going to be actually okay. Of course,
people are out of college. those
first-time jobs are in short supply and
this and that and that's becoming an
issue longer term absolutely I think
that by the end of this decade growth is
4% by 2046 by 2050 with AGI we're at 10%
but when growth is 10% and unemployment
is going to be 80%. But it's better to
be in a world where growth is 10%,
unemployment 80 and with growth doubling
every 5 years. You can redistribute
because you can tax the winners. 2
minutes before the end of the show. I
mean we don't have enough time.
>> I tell you that's my bet we'll get we'll
get we'll get to AGI. We'll get to SI
and there'll be exponential growth.
>> Not for me to disagree. That's your
forecast.
>> So that's my
>> let's say you're right. How does the
government respond in that scenario?
>> Listen, we're already in a mean tested
UBI system. You know, I live in New York
City. My marginal tax rate between
federal, state and local is 54. Mandarin
might be 57. I pay real estate taxes. I
pay also sales taxes and all this
progressive tax system is redistributing
income to those who are rightly so left
behind. Uh Medicare, Medicaid, social
security, unemployment benefit,
disability, food stamps. So we're
already in UBI de facto. We have to make
it bigger. So in a world in which 10% of
the people get most of the income and
the wealth, you're going to tax them
more and you're going to redistribute to
everybody else for two reason. Reason
number one, if you don't do it, there is
a revolution as long as there is
democracy. Reason number two, if you
don't do it, there's not enough
aggregate demand. A rich person cannot
eat more than three times a day. You
cannot hit 100 times. So you need enough
aggregate demand. And Mark was right.
Capital is going to destroy itself from
within because under consumption, if the
share of labor shrinks, the share
capital increases. The only way to
prevent it is to redistribute from the
winners to the losers. So we already
mean tested UBI. We're going to make it
bigger. That's what's going to happen
over the next few decades. That's going
to be the political solution to massive
permanent unemployment. It could be
socially disruptive, but the alternative
is revolution.
>> Norio either sounds terrifying to me.
It's good to see you. Thank you, sir.
Norio Rabini of Rabini Macro Associates.
It started out so positively and then it
ended.
>> I brought him there. Sorry.
>> Way there. Want to end it. We make
everybody better off.
>> Yeah. Well, 80% unemployment. Well,
either that or we're all living in a
very fancy zoo.
>> Okay. Coming up on the program, Max
Kentner of HSBC, Aaron Canada, Clear
Harbor Asset Management, Charmin Mosava
Ramani of Goldman Sachs, and Liz Thomas
of Sofi. We'll see you tomorrow morning
hopefully from New York City. This was
Bloomberg Surveillance.